
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
MUNICIPAL CODE

ENVIRONMENT CODE 
The San Francisco Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 3-14, File No. 131191, approved January 14, 2014, effective February 13, 2014.
The Environment Code was last amended by Ordinance 183-13, File No. 130528, approved August 7, 2013, effective September 6, 2013.


AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
432 Walnut Street, Suite 1200
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202-3909
(800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
www.amlegal.com

THE SAN FRANCISCO CODES
The following San Francisco Codes are published by American Legal:
The Municipal Code:
1996 Charter
Administrative Code
Business and Tax Regulations Code
Campaign and Governmental Conduct Code
Environment Code
Fire Code
Health Code
Municipal Elections Code
Park Code
Planning Code (including Zoning Maps)
Police Code
Port Code
Public Works Code
Subdivision Code
Transportation Code

Building Indspection Commission Codes:
Building Code
Electrical Code
Green Building Code
Housing Code
Mechanical Code
Plumbing Code

Comprehensive Ordinance List

PREFACE TO THE ENVIRONMENT CODE 
	On July 3, 2003, the Board of Supervisors and the Mayor adopted this Municipal Environment Code. The Environment Code was developed to consolidate the City's ordinances governing protection of the environment, natural resources and sustainability that were previously scattered throughout the Administrative Code. 
	This electronic version of the City and County of San Francisco Municipal Code is updated as amending legislation is approved. New Ordinance Notices are inserted where applicable to call the user's attention to material that has been affected by legislation that has been passed but is not yet effective. Any references to such legislation are also compiled in a table at the end of this Code. The amendments are then incorporated into the Code when they become effective.
	Beginning with ordinances passed in 2011, all ordinances affecting this Code are summarized in a table that lists the identifying information (ordinance and file numbers), effective date, short title, and sections affected for each such ordinance. Users should note that the operative date of an ordinance may be later than the effective date of the ordinance. A delayed operative date will be noted in the ordinance.
	This Code may contain various Editor's Notes (explaining the disposition of or cross referencing various provisions), and/or Codification Notes (documenting scrivener's errors and the like found in the underlying ordinances). Such notes have been inserted by the publisher for the convenience of the user or as historical references. They have not been approved or adopted by the City and County of San Francisco, and are of no legal force or effect.
Chapter 1. PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE POLICY STATEMENT2.ENVIRONMENTALLY PREFERABLE PURCHASING ORDINANCE3.INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 4.HEALTHY AIR AND CLEAN TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM 5.RESOURCE CONSERVATION ORDINANCE 7.GREEN BUILDING REQUIREMENTS FOR CITY BUILDINGS8.TROPICAL HARDWOOD AND VIRGIN REDWOOD BAN9.GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS TARGETS AND DEPARTMENTAL ACTION PLANS10.TRANSPORTATION OF AGGREGATE MATERIALS11.CELLPHONE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS12.URBAN FORESTRY COUNCIL13.ARSENIC-TREATED WOOD 14.CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS RECOVERY ORDINANCE 15.GREEN BUSINESS PROGRAM16.FOOD SERVICE WASTE REDUCTION ORDINANCE17.PLASTIC BAG REDUCTION ORDINANCE18.SOLAR ENERGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM 19.MANDATORY RECYCLING AND COMPOSTING20.EXISTING COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS ENERGY PERFORMANCE 22.SAFE DRUG DISPOSAL INFORMATION23.DRINK TAP ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 1:
PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE POLICY STATEMENT 
Sec. 100.Findings. Sec. 101.The San Francisco Precautionary Principle. Sec. 102.Three Year Review. Sec. 103.List of All Environmental Ordinances and Resolutions.Sec. 104.City Undertaking Limited to Promotion of General Welfare. 
SEC. 100.  FINDINGS. 
	The Board of Supervisors finds and declares that: 
	A.	Every San Franciscan has an equal right to a healthy and safe environment. This requires that our air, water, land, and food be of a sufficiently high standard that individuals and communities can live healthy, fulfilling, and dignified lives. The duty to enhance, protect and preserve San Francisco's environment rests on the shoulders of government, residents, citizen groups and businesses alike. 
	B.	Historically, environmentally harmful activities have only been stopped after they have manifested extreme environmental degradation or exposed people to harm. In the case of PCBs, DDT, lead, and asbestos, for instance, regulatory action took place only after disaster had struck. The delay between first knowledge of harm and appropriate action to deal with it can be measured in human lives cut short. 
	C.	San Francisco is a leader in making choices based on the least environmentally harmful alternatives, thereby challenging traditional assumptions about risk management. Numerous City ordinances including: the Integrated Pest Management Ordinance, the Resource Efficient Building Ordinance, the Healthy Air Ordinance, the Resource Conservation Ordinance, and the Environmentally Preferable Purchasing Ordinance apply a precautionary approach to specific City purchases and activities. Internationally, this model is called the Precautionary Principle. 
	D.	As the City consolidates existing environmental laws into a single Environment Code, and builds a framework for future legislation, the Precautionary Principle approach will serve as a policy framework to develop and implement laws for a healthier and more just San Francisco. In this way, the City will create and maintain a healthy, viable Bay Area environmental for current and future generations, and will become a model of sustainability. 
	E.	Science and technology are creating new solutions to prevent or mitigate environmental problems. However, science is also creating new compounds and chemicals that are already finding their way into mother's milk and causing other new problems. New legislation may be required to address these situations, and the Precautionary Principle is intended as a tool to help promote environmentally healthy alternatives while weeding out the negative and often unintended consequences of new technologies. 
	F.	A central element of the precautionary approach is the careful assessment of available alternatives using the best available science. An alternatives assessment examines a broad range of options in order to present the public with the consequences of each approach. The process takes short-term versus long-term effects or costs into consideration, and evaluates and compares the adverse or potentially adverse effects of each option, giving preference to those options with fewer potential hazards. This process allows fundamental questions to be asked: "Is this potentially hazardous activity necessary?" "What less hazardous options are available?" and "How little damage is possible?" 
	G.	The alternatives assessment is also a public process because, locally or internationally, the public bears the ecological and health consequences of environmental decisions. A government's course of action is necessarily enriched by broadly based public participation when a full range of alternatives is considered based on input from diverse individuals and groups. The public should be able to determine the range of specific alternatives to be examined. For each alternative the public should consider both immediate and long-term consequences, as well as possible impacts to the local economy. 
	H.	This form of open decision-making is in line with San Francisco's historic Sunshine Act, which allows citizens to have full view of the legislative process. One of the goals of the Precautionary Principle is to include citizens as equal partners in decisions affecting their health and environment. 
	I.	San Francisco looks forward to the time when the City's power is generated from renewable sources, when all our waste is recycled, when our vehicles produce only potable water as emissions, when the Bay is free from toxins, and the oceans are free from pollutants. The Precautionary Principle provides a means to help us attain these goals as we evaluate future laws and policies in such areas as transportation, construction, land use, planning, water, energy, health care, recreation, purchasing, and public expenditure. 
	J.	Transforming our society to realize these goals and achieving a society living respectfully with the bounds of nature will take a behavioral as well as technological revolution. The Precautionary approach to decision-making will help San Francisco speed this process of change by moving beyond finding cures for environmental ills to preventing the ills before they can do harm. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
SEC. 101.  THE SAN FRANCISCO PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE. 
	The following shall constitute the City and County of San Francisco's Precautionary Principle policy. All officers, boards, commission, and departments of the City and County shall implement the Precautionary Principle in conducting the City and County's affairs: The Precautionary Principle requires a thorough exploration and a careful analysis of a wide range of alternatives. Based on the best available science, the Precautionary Principle requires the selection of the alternative that presents the least potential treat to human health and the City's natural systems. Public participation and an open and transparent decision making process are critical to finding and selecting alternatives. Where threats of serious or irreversible damage to people or nature exist, lack of full scientific certainty about cause and effect shall not be viewed as sufficient reason for the City to postpone cost effective measures to prevent the degradation of the environment or protect the health of its citizens. Any gaps in scientific data uncovered by the examination of alternatives will provide a guidepost for future research, but will not prevent the City from taking protective action. As new scientific data become available, the City will review its decisions and make adjustments when warranted. Where there are reasonable grounds for concern, the precautionary approach to decision-making is meant to help reduce harm by triggering a process to select the least potential threat. The key elements of the Precautionary Principle approach to decision-making include: 
	1.	Anticipatory Action: There is a duty to take anticipatory action to prevent harm. Government, business, and community groups, as well as the general public, share this responsibility. 
	2.	Right to Know: The community has a right to know complete and accurate information on potential human health and environmental impacts associated with the selection of products, services, operations or plans. The burden to supply this information lies with the proponent, not with the general public. 
	3.	Alternatives Assessment: An obligation exists to examine a full range of alternatives and select the alternative with the least potential impact on human health and the environment including the alternative of doing nothing. 
	4.	Full Cost Accounting: When evaluating potential alternatives, there is a duty to consider all the reasonably foreseeable costs, including raw materials, manufacturing, transportation, 
	Precautionary Principle Policy Statement use, cleanup, eventual disposal, and health costs even if such costs are not reflected in the initial price. Short-and long-term benefits and time thresholds should be considered when making decisions. 5. Participatory Decision Process: Decisions applying the Precautionary Principle must be transparent, participatory, and informed by the best available science and other relevant information. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
SEC. 102.  THREE YEAR REVIEW. 
	No later than three years from the effective date of this ordinance, and after a public hearing, the Commission on the Environment shall submit a report to the Board of Supervisors on the effectiveness of the Precautionary Principle policy. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
SEC. 103.  LIST OF ALL ENVIRONMENTAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS. 
	The Director of the Department of the Environment shall produce and maintain a list of all City and County of San Francisco ordinances and resolutions which affect or relate to the environment and shall post this list on the Department of the Environment's website. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
SEC. 104.  CITY UNDERTAKING LIMITED TO PROMOTION OF GENERAL WELFARE. 
	The Board of Supervisors encourages all City employees and officials to take the precautionary principle into consideration and evaluate alternatives when taking actions that could impact health and the environment, especially where those actions could pose threats of serious harm or irreversible damage. This ordinance does not impose specific duties upon any City employee or official to take specific actions. In adopting and undertaking the enforcement of this ordinance, the City and County of San Francisco is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury nor may this ordinance provide any basis for any other judicial relief including, but not limited to a writ of mandamus or an injunction. In adopting this Chapter, the Board of Supervisors does not intend to authorize or require the disclosure to the public of any proprietary information protected under the laws of the State of California. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
CHAPTER 2:
ENVIRONMENTALLY PREFERABLE PURCHASING ORDINANCE 
Sec. 200.Findings. Sec. 201.Goals. Sec. 202.Definitions. Sec. 203.Commission and Department of the Environment Duties. Sec. 204.Applicability. Sec. 205.Duties of City Departments. Sec. 206.Waivers. Sec. 207.Trade Secrets. Sec. 208.Enforcement. Sec. 209.Preemption. Sec. 210.Severability. 
SEC. 200.  FINDINGS. 
	A.	Under this Chapter, the City and County of San Francisco wishes to exercise its power to make economic decisions involving its own funds as a participant in the marketplace and to conduct its own business as a municipal corporation to ensure that purchases of commodities and expenditures of public money are made in a manner consistent with its human health and environmental policies. 
	B.	The results of a three year pilot study implementing environmentally preferable purchasing for City departments demonstrated the feasibility of developing relevant human health and environmental selection criteria for products used to maintain City buildings and vehicle fleets. The pilot program further demonstrated that products meeting these criteria are available, cost competitive, and effective at meeting the City's performance standards. It is the City's intention that ultimately there will be environmentally preferable alternatives for each commodity regularly purchased by the City. 
	C.	The Precautionary Principle calls for full disclosure by manufacturers and suppliers so the most protective standard can be applied in the comparison of potential alternatives. Only the full disclosure of ingredients and impacts of the products and services will allow the City to make informed and protective decisions. For example, suppliers of pesticides should disclose the "inert" ingredients in products used on City property instead of limiting disclosure to the legal requirement of "active" ingredients which may make up less than 1% of the product. 
	D.	The Precautionary Principle calls for a participatory and transparent process in the evaluation and selection of potential alternatives. Participation in decision-making by impacted communities is a basic tenet of the Precautionary Principle. Citizens of San Francisco enacted the Sunshine Ordinance to ensure transparency in City government; the Commission on the Environment operates under the mandates of the Sunshine Ordinance in addition to the requirements of the Brown Act and Public Records Act. Above and beyond that, deliberations and decisions under this ordinance made in accordance with the Public Participation Guidelines shall be made in concert with affected community members; community involvement is as central to the process as data gathering and expert advice. 
	E.	Purchases of commodities made by the City and County of San Francisco that are consistent with the Precautionary Principle will encourage market development of new, healthy, environmentally preferable technologies and products and will demonstrate the efficacy of this approach to other government agencies, residents and businesses which will help generate regional demand for healthy products, a healthy way of doing business, product innovation, and business development and competition. 
	F.	Implementing the Precautionary Principle is both good science and good economics. Precautionary action benefits workers, stimulates innovation and supports timely action to avoid costs to public health and the environment. Precautionary business practice leads to expanded local production, job creation and the development of technologies that support job creation in the area of environmentally preferable products. To this end, the Department of the Environment, the Small Business Commission, the Office of Contract Administration and the Human Rights Commission will work together to ensure that there is sufficient outreach, education and training provided to disadvantaged businesses in order to create equitable access and competition for city contracts affected by precautionary purchasing. 
	G.	Many of the City's purchasing decisions have impacts across departmental boundaries. Therefore, interdepartmental cooperation is a key element to a successful precautionary purchasing program. City staff must work closely together to create opportunities for the exchange of ideas and the flow of information between departments and the larger community. 
(Added by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. 200 added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.1; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99)
SEC. 201.  GOALS. 
	The purpose of this Chapter is to reduce negative impacts to human health and the environment through the development of specifications for City purchases that: 
		1.	Reduce occupational health hazards for City staff as well as reduce exposure of City residents and visitors to potentially toxic chemicals by purchasing products for use in City operations that do not harm human health or the environment; 
		2.	Reduce San Francisco's contribution to global climate change by purchasing products that lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from Commodities; 
		3.	Improve the air quality for San Francisco residents and visitors by purchasing vehicles and motorized equipment that minimize emissions of air pollutants; 
		4.	Protect the quality of San Francisco's ground and surface waters by eliminating the use of chemicals known to contaminate local water resources through toxicity, bioaccumulation or persistence; and 
		5.	Preserve resources locally and globally through purchasing practices that include: 
			(i)	Maximizing water and energy efficiency and favoring renewable energy sources; 
			(ii)	Maximizing post consumer recycled content and readily recyclable or compostable materials; 
			(iii)	Favoring long-term use through product durability, repairability, and refuse; and 
			(iv)	Considering life cycle economics of a product that includes manufacture, transportation, use and disposal. 
(Added by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. 201 added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.2; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99) 
SEC. 202.  DEFINITIONS. 
	Unless otherwise defined below, words in this Chapter shall have the same meanings as those words in Chapter 21 of the Administrative Code. 
	(a)	"Approved Alternatives List" shall mean the list of alternatives to a product in a Targeted Product Category identified, evaluated and approved by the Director. Products on an Approved Alternatives List will have a lesser impact on human health and the environment compared to other similar products, consistent with the Precautionary Principle as defined in Chapter 1 of the Environment Code. 
	(b)	"Commission" shall mean the Commission on the Environment established by Charter section 4.118. 
	(c)	"Contract" shall mean an agreement with a nongovernmental entity for the purchase of Commodities at the expense of or to be paid out of moneys deposited in the treasury or out of trust moneys under the control or collected by the City and County of San Francisco. The term "Contract" shall include a purchase order or other written instrument for the purchase of Commodities. 
	(d)	"Contractor or Contracting Party" shall mean a person that enters into a Contract with the City. 
	(e)	"Department" shall mean the Department of the Environment established by Charter section 4.118. 
	(f)	"Director" shall mean the Director of the Department of the Environment.
	(g)	"Targeted Product Category" shall mean a broad category of products routinely purchased by the City which have been identified by the Commission as having undesirable environmental health impacts for which alternative products should be identified and substituted. 
(Added by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. 202 added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.3; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99) 
SEC. 203.  COMMISSION AND DEPARTMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENT DUTIES. 
	(a)	Public Participation Guidelines. In order to promote meaningful public participation, after consultation with technical experts, individuals with expertise in environmental protection or environmental health, community groups and the public, and not later than 90 days from the effective date of this Chapter, the Director shall, at a public meeting, adopt Public Participation Guidelines for use in making designated decisions under this Chapter. Amendments to the Public Participation Guidelines may be made by the Director in the same manner. 
	(b)	Targeted Product Categories. 
		(i)	Not later than 210 days from the effective date of this Chapter and regularly thereafter, the Director, in accordance with the Public Participation Guidelines, will consult with the Director of the Department of Public Health, the City Purchaser, City department users, technical experts, individuals with expertise in environmental protection or environmental health, community groups, labor representatives and the public to develop and present recommendations for Targeted Product Categories to the Commission on the Environment. 
		(ii)	Not later than 270 days from the effective date of this Chapter and regularly thereafter, the Commission on the Environment will designate Targeted Product Categories at a public meeting. 
	(c)	Approved Alternatives List for Targeted Product Categories. 
		(i)	Criteria. For each Targeted Product Category, the Director, in accordance with the Public Participation Guidelines, will consult with the Director of the Department of Public Health, the City Purchaser, City department users, technical experts, including individuals with expertise in environmental protection or environmental health, community groups, other governmental entities, and the public to develop a comprehensive set of substantive and qualitative human health and environmental criteria by which to evaluate products in a Targeted Product Category. Criteria will be designed to effectuate the goals stated in Section 201 and will take into account non-local impacts for which information is available. The following factors may be considered in establishing the criteria: human health impacts and environmental impacts and threats of harm to human health or the environment. This includes, but is not limited to: greenhouse gas and air pollution emissions; transportation impacts; groundwater and surface water contamination; water and energy efficiency; renewable energy sources; recycled content; durability; and ability to recycle, refuse or compost. The Director will adopt criteria for each Target Product Category. The Director will post the criteria for each Target Product Category on the Department's website. The Director, in accordance with the Public Participation Guidelines, will regularly review and revise the criteria to reflect the current state of scientific knowledge regarding health and environmental effects. 
		(ii)	Evaluation and Adoption. The Director shall create an Approved Alternatives List for each Targeted Product Category either by: objectively evaluating each potential alternative within a targeted product category based on the criteria or through a bid or solicitation based on the criteria issued by the Office of Contract Administration or other relevant department. The Director will present the Approved Alternatives List and any subsequent revisions to the Commission at a public meeting and shall notify all City departments of adoption or revision of an Approved Alternatives List. 
		(iii)	The Director shall respond within 90 days to any written request to include a particular product on the Approved Alternatives List. 
		(iv)	The Approved Alternatives List for each Targeted Product Category shall indicate where each included commodity is produced. In making a purchase decision, the City Purchaser and City department users, after considering other relevant factors such as cost, may at his or her discretion give priority to commodities produced within the geographic boundaries of the City. 
	(d)	Rules and Regulations. After a public hearing, the Director, in consultation with the Purchaser, may promulgate rules, regulations or guidelines as required by this Chapter or as necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes and requirements of this Chapter and may adopt forms necessary to implement this Chapter. 
	(e)	Training. The Director shall implement ongoing training for City employees and contractors for the purpose of compliance with this Chapter and provide ongoing training to industrial health and safety officers, environmental staff, contracting officers and others involved in purchasing decisions and product use. 
	(f)	Presentation to Board of Supervisors. Not later than 15 months from the effective date of this Chapter, the Director will notify Clerk of the Board of Supervisors that the Department is prepared to deliver its presentation and ask the Clerk to work with the President of the Board of Supervisors to calendar the presentation for the appropriate Board committee. 
	(g)	Annual Review and Report to Commission and Board of Supervisors. Not later than twenty-four months from the effective date of this Chapter, and annually thereafter in February, the Director shall submit a report to the Commission and the Board of Supervisors on the progress of City departments towards full compliance with this Chapter. The annual report shall include: 
		(i)	an evaluation of the progress in meeting the goals in Section 201; 
		(ii)	the status and effectiveness of current efforts by City departments to implement this Chapter and additional specific actions, including legislation, needed to effectively implement this Chapter; 
		(iii)	a summary of the annual reports submitted by City departments pursuant to section 205(b) and a list of waivers granted by the Purchaser during the previous period organized by department. 
		(iv)	an update on the extent and efficacy of training programs for users and purchasers of Targeted Products; 
		(v)	a workplan for the next reporting period with specific goals, actions and timelines necessary to implement this Chapter; and 
		(vi)	The annual report required by this section shall include a recommendation by the Director, after consultation with City Departments and the public, on how to expand this Chapter to City contractors. 
(Added by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.4; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99) 
SEC. 204.  APPLICABILITY. 
	This Chapter applies only to Contracts for the procurement of Commodities as governed by Chapter 21 of the Administrative Code. Once the Director has adopted an Approved Alternatives List for a product within a Targeted Product Category, each City department entering into a new Contract or extending the term of an existing Contract for the purchase of that product shall only purchase products from the Approved Alternatives List. 
(Added by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. 204 added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.5; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99) 
SEC. 205.  DUTIES OF CITY DEPARTMENTS. 
	(a)	Each City department, board and commission subject to this Chapter shall cooperate with and provide in writing to the Director all information necessary or the Director to carry out her or his duties under this Chapter. Appropriate City department personnel will attend training offered by the Director. 
	(b)	Not later than twenty months from the effective date of this Chapter, and annually thereafter in December, each City department that purchases Target Products shall provide a report to the Director including the following information: 
		(i)	A list of Contracts, including the amount spent and actual quantities purchased (to the extent feasible), issued for products in each Targeted Product Category in the prior period. 
		(ii)	A summary of any waivers from this Chapter in the prior period. 
	(c)	In addition to these obligations, each City department shall use its best efforts to incorporate Commodities from the Approved Alternatives List into existing Contracts. If the City department is unable to amend an existing Contract, the City department is authorized to enter into another Contract to procure such products, provided that the City department complies with all other applicable laws. Nothing in this Chapter is or shall be interpreted to require or authorize any City department to breach the terms of a Contract. Each City department shall document its efforts pursuant to this Section in the annual report filed under Subsection (b), explaining the circumstances. 
(Added by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. 205 added by Ord. 17103, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.6; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99) 
SEC. 206.  WAIVERS. 
	The application for a waiver shall be filed on a form specified by the Purchaser. The waiver application will be sent electronically to any person who requests such notification. The Purchaser will consult with the Director on the waiver application and shall respond to the requesting department within 5 days of receipt of a waiver application. Waivers may be issued for up to the term of the Contract. Waivers from the requirements of this Chapter are available under the following circumstances: 
	(a)	Emergency. A City department may grant itself a waiver from this Chapter when the purchase of a Commodity is necessary to respond to an emergency which meets the criteria set forth in section 21.15(a) of the Administrative Code. In such case, the Director of the City department shall within two business days notify the Purchaser in writing of the emergency that prevented compliance with this Chapter, disclose the use and intensity of use of the product, describe steps being taken to safeguard public and City employee health during the emergency use and explain how such an emergency will be avoided in the future. 
	(b)	Performance Standards. A City department may request a waiver from this Chapter from the Purchaser when no product on the Approved Alternatives List meets departmental performance standards. The Purchaser shall grant a waiver upon a showing that the requesting department has: 
		(i)	thoroughly tested each product on the Approved Alternatives List and none meet the department's performance standards (including timely availability); and 
		(ii)	disclosed the use and intensity of use for the product and developed a reasonable plan to minimize use of the selected product and/or protect employees and public from exposure; and 
		(iii)	provide a written memorandum detailing all attempts to explore and utilize listed alternatives to the selected product within the waiver period. 
	(c)	Cost Prohibitive. A City department may request a waiver from this Chapter from the Purchaser when every product on the Approved Alternatives List is cost prohibitive. The Purchaser shall grant a waiver upon a showing that the requesting department has: 
		(i)	demonstrated that each product on the Approved Alternatives List is cost prohibitive while taking into account the goals set forth in Section 201; and 
		(ii)	disclosed the use and intensity of use for the product and developed a reasonable plan to minimize use of the selected product and/or protect employees and public from exposure; and 
		(iii)	provide a written memorandum detailing all attempts to explore and utilize listed alternatives to the selected product within the waiver period. 
	(d)	Other. The Purchaser may determine that a waiver should be granted upon a showing that the requesting department has demonstrated a reasonable basis for a waiver and developed a reasonable plan to minimize use of the selected product and/or protect employees and public from exposure and to investigate alternatives to the selected product during the waiver period. 
	(e)	The Purchaser shall report on waivers granted to the Director and the Director shall report to the Commission at its next public meeting on: 
		(i)	the product for which a City department obtained a waiver; 
		(ii)	the proposed use and intensity of the product being used and the reason for the waiver; 
		(iii)	steps being taken to safeguard public and City employee health during the waiver period; and 
		(iv)	other waivers granted to that department. 
	(f)	The Purchaser and the Director shall maintain and post a list of all waivers on their Departments' websites organized by department and shall mail the list to any person who requests such list. 
(Added by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. 206 added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.7; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99) 
SEC. 207.  TRADE SECRETS. 
	(a)	If a person believes that any in information required to be reported or disclosed by this Chapter contains a trade secret, the person shall provide the information to the Director, the Purchaser (Office of Contract Administration) and other City departments requiring such information and shall notify the City in writing of that belief, detailing the basis of the belief as to each specific item of information the person claims is a trade secret and identifying the specific statute or judicial authority under which the claim is made. The person submitting the trade secret shall submit two forms of information: one with the trade secret information clearly marked and one prominently marked "public" with the trade secrets redacted. For purposes of this Chapter, "trade secret" shall have the same meaning as it has under state law. The person designating information as a trade secret shall specify a name and street address for notification purposes and shall be responsible for updating such information. The City shall not disclose am properly substantiated trade secret which is so designated by a person except as required by this Chapter or as otherwise required by law. 
	(b)	Information designated as trade secret may be disclosed to an officer or employee of the City and County of San Francisco, the State of California, or the United States of America for use in connection with the official duties of such officer or employee acting under authority of law for the protection of health, without liability on the part of the City. 
	(c)	When the Director or other City official or employee receives a request for information that has been designated as, or which the City determines may be, a trade secret, the City shall notify the person or business of the request. The City may request further evidence or explanation from the person as to why the information requested is a trade secret. If the City determines that the information does not constitute a trade secret, the City shall notify the person or business of that conclusion and that the information will be released by a specified date in order to provide the person or business the opportunity to obtain a court order prohibiting disclosure. 
	(d)	In adopting this Chapter, the Board of Supervisors does not intend to authorize or require the disclosure to the public of any trade secrets protected under the laws of the State of California. 
	(e)	This Section is not intended to empower a person or business to refuse to disclose any information, including but not limited to trade secrets, to the Director or other City Departments required under this Chapter. 
	(f)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, any officer or employee of the City and County of San Francisco, or former officer or employee or contractor with the City or employee thereof, who by virtue of such employment of official position has obtained possession or has had access to information, the disclosure of which is prohibited by this Section, and who, knowing that disclosure of the information is prohibited, knowingly and willfully discloses the information in any manner to any person or business not entitled to receive it, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 
(Added by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. 207 added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.8; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99) 
SEC. 208.  ENFORCEMENT. 
	Whenever any City department finds, after an investigation by the contracting officer and the City Attorney, that a person or entity being considered for a Contract or under Contract with the City has, in connection with the bidding, execution or performance of any Contract: 
		(1)	Falsely represented to the City the nature or character of the Commodities offered, used or supplied under the Contract; or 
		(2)	Knowingly provided the City with Commodities in violation of this Chapter or the rules or regulations adopted pursuant to this Chapter, the contracting officer shall have the authority to impose such sanctions or take such other actions as are designed to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. For purposes of this subsection, knowingly has the same meaning as in Chapter 6, Section 6.83 of the Administrative Code. 
	The City may take any enforcement action authorized by Chapters 21 or 28 of the Administrative Code, including, without limitation, department. 
	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to relieve a Contractor of responsibility for providing a satisfactory product. 
(Added by Ord. 11505, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. 208 added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.9; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99) 
SEC. 209.  PREEMPTION. 
	Nothing in this Chapter shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any power or duty in conflict with any federal or state law. 
(Added by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. 209 added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.10; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99) 
SEC. 210.  SEVERABILITY. 
	In the event that a court or agency of competent jurisdiction holds that a federal or state law, rule or regulation invalidates any clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, it is the intent of the Board of Supervisors that the court or agency sever such clause, sentence, paragraph or section so that the remainder of this ordinance shall remain in effect. 
(Added by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Former Sec. 210 added by Ord. 17103, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05; Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21F.11; added by Ord. 121-99, File No. 990405, App. 5/21/99) 
CHAPTER 3:
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
Sec. 300.Purpose and Findings. Sec. 301.Definitions.Sec. 302.Prohibited Use of Pesticides. Sec. 303.Exemptions. Sec. 304.Notice of Pesticide Use. Sec. 305.City Integrated Pest Management Policy. Sec. 306.Recordkeeping and Reporting.Sec. 307.Reserved. Sec. 308.City Contracts. Sec. 309.Guidelines. Sec. 310.Accountability. 
SEC. 300.  PURPOSE AND FINDINGS. 
	(a)	The Board of Supervisors hereby finds and declares that it shall be the policy of the City and County of San Francisco for City departments and City contractors who apply pesticides to City property to eliminate or reduce pesticide applications on City property to the maximum extent feasible. 
	(b)	Under this Chapter, the City and County of San Francisco wishes to exercise its power to make economic decisions involving its own funds as a participant in the marketplace and to conduct its own business as a municipal corporation to ensure that purchases and expenditures of public monies are made in a manner consistent with integrated pest management policies and practices. 
	(c)	This Chapter 3 concerns the application of pesticides to property owned by the City and County of San Francisco only, and does not concern the application of pesticides to property that is not owned by the City and County of San Francisco. 
	(d)	City departments shall implement the following City Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Policy: 

CITY INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT POLICY 
	The City, in carrying out its operations, shall assume pesticides are potentially hazardous to human and environmental health. City departments shall give preference to reasonably available nonpesticide alternatives when considering the use of pesticides on City property. For all pest problems on City property, City departments shall follow the integrated pest management (IPM) approach outlined below. 
		(1)	Monitor each pest ecosystem to determine pest population, size, occurrence, and natural enemy population, if present. Identify decisions and practices that could affect pest populations. Keep records of such monitoring; 
		(2)	Set for each pest at each site and identify in an IPM implementation plan, an injury level, based on how much biological, aesthetic or economic damage the site can tolerate; 
		(3)	Consider a range of potential treatments for the pest problem. Employ nonpesticide management tactics first. Consider the use of chemicals only as a last resort and select and use chemicals only within an IPM program and in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. 
			(A)	Determine the most effective treatment time, based on pest biology and other variables, such as weather, seasonal changes in wildlife use and local conditions, 
			(B)	Design and construct indoor and outdoor areas to reduce and eliminate pest habitats, 
			(C)	Modify management practices, including watering, mulching, waste management, and food storage, 
			(D)	Modify pest ecosystems to reduce food and living space, 
			(E)	Use physical controls such as hand-weeding, traps and barriers, 
			(F)	Use biological controls (introducing or enhancing pests' natural enemies); 
		(4)	Conduct ongoing educational programs: 
			(A)	Acquaint staff with pest biologies, the IPM approach, new pest management strategies as they become known, and toxicology of pesticides proposed for use, 
			(B)	Inform the public of the City's attempt to reduce pesticide use and respond to questions from the public about the City's pest management practices; 
		(5)	Monitor treatment to evaluate effectiveness. Keep monitoring records and include them in the IPM implementation plan. 
	(e)	Nothing in this Chapter is intended to apply to pesticide applications that are required to comply with Federal, State or local laws or regulations. 
	(f)	This Chapter applies the Precautionary Principle to the selection of reduced risk pesticides and other pest management techniques on City property with the intent of minimizing negative impacts on human health and the environment. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 39.1; added by Ord. 401-96, App. 10/21/96; amended Ord. 274-97, App. 7/3/97; Ord. 7-11, File No. 100761, App. 1/7/2011) 
SEC. 301.  DEFINITIONS. 
	Whenever used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below. 
	(a)	"Antimicrobial agents" means any substance or mixture of substances intended for inhibiting the growth of or destroying any bacteria, fungi pathogenic to human and other animals, or viruses declared to be pests by California Food and Agriculture Code § 12754.5. Antimicrobial agents do not include slime control agents, substances intended for the use in or on humans or other animals, or substances intended for use in or on processed food, beverages, or pharmaceuticals. 
	(b)	"City department" means any department of the City and County of San Francisco and includes any pesticide applicator hired by a City department to apply pesticides on City property. City department does not include any other local agency or any federal or State agency, including but not limited to the San Francisco Unified School District, the San Francisco Community College District, the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency and the San Francisco Housing Authority. 
	(c)	"Commission" means the Commission on the Environment provided for by San Francisco Charter Section 4.118. 
	(d)	"Contract" means a binding written agreement, including but not limited to a contract, lease, permit, license or easement between a person, firm, corporation or other entity, including a governmental entity, and a City department, which grants a right to use or occupy property of the City and County of San Francisco for a specified purpose or purposes. 
	(e)	"Contractor" means a person, firm, corporation or other entity, including a governmental entity, that enters into a contract with a City department. 
	(f)	"Department" means the Department of the Environment provided for by San Francisco Charter Section 4.118. 
	(g)	"Integrated pest management" means a decision-making process for managing pests that uses monitoring to determine pest injury levels and combines biological, cultural, physical, and chemical tools to minimize health, environmental and financial risks. The method uses extensive knowledge about pests, such as infestation thresholds, life histories, environmental requirements and natural enemies to complement and facilitate biological and other natural control of pests. The method uses the least toxic synthetic pesticides only as a last resort to controlling pests. 
	(h)	"Notification Sign" means a sign containing the name and active ingredient of the pesticide product, the target pest, the date of pesticide use, the signal word, the date for re entry to the area treated, and the City's 311 information number. Such signs shall be of a standardized design that is easily recognizable to the public and workers. 
	(i)	"Pesticide" means pesticide as defined in Section 12753 of Chapter 2 of Division 7 of the California Food and Agricultural Code, but does not include antimicrobial agents. 
	(j)	"Signal word" means the applicable word—"Danger," "Warning," or "Caution"—or some other word, signifying the level of toxicity of a pesticide designated by Federal law under 40 C.F.R. 156.64. 
	(k)	"San Francisco Hazard Tier Rating System" means the pesticide hazard screening protocol developed by the San Francisco Department of the Environment, which rates pesticide hazards as Tier I (most hazardous), Tier II (medium hazard), or Tier III (least hazardous). 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 39.2; added by Ord. 401-96, App. 10/21/ 96; amended Ord. 274-97, App. 7/3/97; Ord. 36198, App. 12/11/98; Ord. 2-00, File No. 992000, App. 1/13/2000; Ord. 7-11, File No. 100761, App. 1/7/2011) 
SEC. 302.  PROHIBITED USE OF PESTICIDES. 
	No pesticides may be used on or applied to property owned by the City and County of San Francisco, except for pesticides granted an exemption under Section 303. 
(Added by Ord. 17103, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 39.3; added by Ord. 401-96, App. 10/21/96; amended Ord. 274-97, App. 7/3/97; Ord. 7-11, File No. 100761, App. 1/7/2011) 
SEC. 303.  EXEMPTIONS. 
	(a)	Reduced Risk Pesticide List. Pesticides included on the most current Reduced Risk Pesticide List compiled by the Department of the Environment may be used within limitations stated on the List. 
	(b)	Improving and maintaining water quality. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, this Chapter shall not apply to the use of any pesticide for the purpose of improving or maintaining water quality at: 
		(1)	Drinking water treatment plants; 
		(2)	Wastewater treatment plants; 
		(3)	Reservoirs; and, 
		(4)	Related collection, distribution and treatment facilities. 
	(c)	Limited use exemptions. A City department may apply to the Department for up to a one-year exemption from the pesticide ban imposed by Section 302 for use of a particular pesticide for a particular use. The application for an exemption shall be filed on a form specified by the Department and shall be signed by the City department's IPM Coordinator. The Department of the Environment may grant the exemption for a specific and limited purpose for up to one year upon a finding that the City department has: 
		(1)	Made a good-faith effort to find alternatives to the banned pesticide; 
		(2)	Demonstrated that effective, economic alternatives to the banned pesticide do not exist for the particular use; and 
		(3)	Developed a reasonable plan for investigating alternatives to the banned pesticide during the exemption period. 
	(d)	Pilot testing exemptions. A City department may also apply to the Department for up to a one-year exemption from the pesticide ban imposed by Section 302 for pilot testing of a pesticide that has been categorized as a reduced-risk pesticide by the Department, but which has not yet been added to the Reduced-Risk Pesticide List. An application for exemption must be filed as in 303(c) above. The Department of the Environment may grant the exemption for a specific and limited purpose for up to one year upon a finding that: 
		(1)	The City department has made a good-faith effort to find non-chemical control methods for solving the pest problem; 
		(2)	The pesticide proposed for pilot testing shows potential for replacing more hazardous pest management methods, and 
		(3)	The pesticide proposed for pilot testing meets the Department's criteria for Reduced-Risk Pesticides.
	(e)	Reduced-risk pesticide. The Commission on the Environment may exempt a reduced-risk pesticide from the ban imposed by Section 302 upon a finding that the reduced-risk pesticide is commonly used as part of an IPM strategy. Based on recommendations by the Department, the Commission shall maintain a list of reduced-risk pesticides granted an exemption pursuant to this subsection. The Commission shall review the list annually and make necessary changes. The Commission may review and revise the list more frequently upon recommendation by the Department. 
	(f)	Emergency exemption. A City department may apply to the Department for an emergency exemption in the event that an emergency pest outbreak poses an immediate threat to public health or significant economic damage will result from failure to use a pesticide banned pursuant to Section 302. The application for an exemption shall be filed on a form specified by the Department. The Department shall respond to the application in a timely manner. If the requesting department is unable to reach the Department, the departmental IPM Coordinator may authorize the one-time emergency use of the required pesticide. The department IPM Coordinator must notify the Department of the determination to use the pesticide by facsimile prior to its application in the event that the department IPM Coordinator is unable to reach the Department. Notification Signs shall be posted at the time of application and remain posted four days following the application. The Department may impose additional conditions for emergency applications. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 39.4; added by Ord. 401-96, App. 10/21/96; amended Ord. 274-97, App. 7/3/ 97; Ord. 7-11, File No. 100761, App. 1/7/2011) 
SEC. 304.  NOTICE OF PESTICIDE USE. 
	(a)	Except as provided in Subdivisions (b) through (e) hereof, any City department that uses any pesticide shall comply with the following notification procedures: 
		(1)	Notification Signs shall be posted at least three days before application of any Tier I or Tier II pesticide product and remain posted at least four days after application of the pesticide. 
		(2)	Notification Signs shall be posted for pesticide products classified as Tier III (least hazardous) on the day of treatment, prior to application of the Tier III pesticide product. Signs shall remain posted in accordance with instructions on the pesticide product's label. 
		(3)	Signs shall be posted 
			(i)	at every entry point to the area where the pesticide is applied if the pesticide is applied in an enclosed area, and 
			(ii)	in highly visible locations around the perimeter of the area where the pesticide is applied if the pesticide is applied in an open area. 
		(4)	Signs shall contain the name and active ingredient of the pesticide product, the target pest, the date of pesticide use, the signal word indicating the toxicity category of the pesticide product, the date for re-entry to the area treated, and the name and contact number for the City department responsible for the application. 
		(5)	City departments may use permanent signs if the signs are updated as required by this Chapter. 
	(b)	City departments shall not be required to post Notification Signs in accordance with Subsection (a) in right-of-way locations that the general public does not use for recreational purposes. However, each City department that uses pesticides in such right-of-way locations shall work with the City's 311 center to ensure that callers to the 311 center can receive information about pesticide applications in the right-of-way areas. The department, acting through the 311 call center, shall provide callers inquiring about pesticide use in right-of-way locations with all the information normally listed on notification signs under subsection (a)(4). The department shall also post a notice in a public area located in its main office building explaining that the public may obtain information regarding the department's use of pesticides in right-of-way locations by calling the City's 311 center. 
	(c)	City departments using baits or other pesticides granted an exemption by the Department pursuant to Subsection (e) shall not be required to post Notification Signs in accordance with Subsection (a). However, each such department shall post a permanent Notification Sign: 
		(1)	in each building or vehicle where such pesticides are used, 
		(2)	at the City department's main office or a similar location where the public obtains information regarding the building or vehicle, and 
		(3)	when such pesticides are used outdoors to control rats and other pests, in a conspicuous location outside of the area where they are used. 
	(d)	In the event of a public health emergency or to comply with worker safety requirements, the Department of the Environment may authorize City departments to apply a Tier I or Tier II pesticide without providing the usual three-day advance notification. In such cases, Notification Signs shall be posted on the day of treatment, prior to application and remain posted four days following the application. 
	(e)	The Department may grant exemptions to the notification requirements for one-time pesticide uses and may authorize permanent changes in the way City departments notify the public about pesticide use in specific circumstances, upon a finding that good cause exists to allow an exemption to the notification requirements. Prior to granting an exemption pursuant to this subsection, the City department requesting the exemption shall identify the specific situations in which it is not possible to comply with the notification requirements and propose alternative notification procedures. The Department shall review and approve the alternative notification procedures. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 39.5; added by Ord. 401-96, App. 10/21/96; amended Ord. 27497, App. 7/3/97; Ord. 231-99, File No. 991246, App. 8/20/99; Ord. 2-00, File No. 992000, App. 1/13/2000; Ord. 7-11, File No. 100761, App. 1/7/ 2011) 
SEC. 305.  CITY INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT POLICY. 
	(a)	Each City department that uses pesticides shall maintain an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Policy. The Department may require periodic IPM plan updates. The IPM implementation plans and any periodic updates shall be consistent with the requirements of this Section and any guidelines developed by the Department pursuant to this Chapter. 
	(b)	A City department IPM implementation plan shall outline the ways in which the City department shall comply with the City IPM Policy in Section 300(d). The City department IPM implementation plan shall include pesticide applications performed by pesticide applicators at the request of the City department. The IPM implementation plan shall contain a list of the types and quantities of chemicals used, the types of pest problems, the alternatives adopted to date, alternatives proposed for adoption within the next six months, and the name of the IPM Coordinator for the City department. 
	(c)	At the request of the Department, the Commission may determine that a City department's IPM implementation plan is not in conformity with the City IPM Policy. Upon a determination of nonconformity, the City department shall submit a revised plan to the Department in accordance with a schedule established by the Commission. 
	(d)	The Department shall disseminate public educational information about IPM plans and programs and the City's IPM Policy. 
	(e)	The Department shall maintain a data bank of information concerning pesticide use by City departments and the efficacy of alternatives used by City departments. All City departments that use pesticides shall participate in the Department's program by: 
		(1)	Identifying the types of pest problems that the City Department has; 
		(2)	Identifying types and quantities of pesticides currently in use by the City department; 
		(3)	Identifying the use of alternatives for pesticides; 
		(4)	Designating City department contact personnel who are responsible for the service for which the pesticides are used to regularly assess the efficacy of alternatives and to act as a resource for other City departments; and
		(5)	Providing regular reports as required by the Department of the Environment on the City department's efforts to implement the City IPM Policy. 
	(f)	Any City department planning to apply pesticides to outdoor areas must first obtain a written recommendation from a person holding a valid Agricultural Pest Control Advisor license issued by the California Department of Pesticide Regulation. Written recommendations shall be consistent with the IPM plan for the site and state the period for which they are valid, from one day up to one calendar year from the date of issue. 
	(g)	Any City department that performs landscape pesticide applications must do so by or under the supervision of a person holding a valid Qualified Applicator certificate under state law. Properly trained, but unlicensed staff may apply pesticides under the direction of a properly licensed staff member. 
	(h)	The Department may request that the City departments that use pesticides provide work orders to the Department to cover the cost of implementing this IPM program. 
	(i)	The Department shall post on its website summaries of pesticide use by City departments and exemptions granted. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 39.6; added by Ord. 401-96, App. 10/21/96; amended Ord. 27497, App. 7/3/97; Ord. 231-99, File No. 991246, App. 8/20/99; Ord. 2-00, File No. 992000, App. 1/13/2000; Ord. 7-11, File No. 100761, App. 1/7/ 2011) 
SEC. 306.  RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING. 
	(a)	Each City department that uses pesticides shall keep records of all pest management activities. Each record shall include the following information: 
		(1)	The target pest; 
		(2)	The type and quantity of pesticide used; 
		(3)	The site of the pesticide application; 
		(4)	The date the pesticide was used; 
		(5)	The name of the pesticide applicator; 
		(6)	The application equipment used; 
		(7)	Prevention and other non-chemical methods of control used; 
		(8)	Experimental efforts; and 
		(9)	Exemptions granted by the Department pursuant to Section 303 for that application. 
	(b)	Each City department that uses pesticides shall submit the pest management record required by Subsection 
	(a)	to the Department on a monthly basis. The Department may reduce the submittal frequency. 
	(c)	Pest management records shall be made available to the public upon request in accordance with the provisions of the San Francisco Sunshine Ordinance, San Francisco Administrative Code, Chapter 67. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 39.7; added by Ord. 401-96, App. 10/21/96; amended Ord. 27497, App. 7/3/97; Ord. 2-00, File No. 992000, App. 1/13/2000; Ord. 7-11, File No. 100761, App. 1/7/ 2011) 
SEC. 307.  RESERVED. 
(Added by Ord. 17103, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 39.8; added by Ord. 401-96, App. 10/21/96; amended Ord. 274-97, App. 7/3/97; Ord. 361-98, App. 12/11/98; Ord. 2-00, File No. 992000, App. 1/13/2000; Repealed by Ord. 7-11, File No. 100761, App. 1/7/ 2011) 
SEC. 308.  CITY CONTRACTS. 
	(a)	When a City department enters into a new contract or extends the term of an existing contract that authorizes a contractor to apply pesticides to City property, the City department shall submit an IPM plan update to the Commission on the Environment that incorporates the pesticide usage of the contractor into the City department's IPM plan. 
	(b)	The contractor shall comply with Sections 300, 301, 302, 304 and 306. 
	(c)	The contractor, or City department on behalf of a contractor, may apply for any exemption authorized under Section 303. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 39.9; added by Ord. 274-97, App. 7/3/97; Ord. 7-11, File No. 100761, App. 1/7/2011)
SEC. 309.  GUIDELINES. 
	The Department of the Environment may issue guidelines to assist City departments in the implementation of this Chapter. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 39.10; added by Ord. 274-97, App. 7/3/97) 
SEC. 310.  ACCOUNTABILITY. 
	(a)	The Department shall hold a noticed public meeting at least once a year at which it shall consider issues related to pest management activities on City property, including the use of reduced-risk pesticides. Any City department or contractor granted a limited use exemption or an emergency exemption under Section 303 during the prior calendar year shall send a representative to the meeting to explain why the exemption was sought and what actions the department or contractor has taken under the exemption. Any City department or contractor using the highest risk products included on the Reduced-Risk Pesticide List maintained by the Department shall send a representative to the meeting to explain the reasons for using such products and how they have been used. The Department shall be responsible for notifying City departments of the meeting each year and of the requirements of this subsection. City departments shall cooperate in notifying their contractors of the same. 
	(b)	The Department shall establish a mechanism for collecting complaints from City residents regarding inappropriate pesticide use on City properties. The Department shall conduct any necessary investigations and respond to the complaints within 30 days of their receipt. 
	(c)	The Department shall maintain on its website an up-to-date list of all exemptions approved by the Department under Section 303. 
(Added by Ord. 7-11, File No. 100761, App. 1/7/2011)
CHAPTER 4:
HEALTHY AIR AND CLEAN TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM 
Sec. 400.Healthy Air and Clean Transportation Program. Sec. 401.Definitions. Sec. 402. Tenant Bicycle Parking in Existing Commercial Buildings.Sec. 403.Reducing the Municipal Fleet. Sec. 404.New or Replacement Motor Vehicles. Sec. 405. Healthy Air and Clean Transportation Program Implementation. Sec. 406.Infrastructure for Alternative Fuels with Low Carbon Intensity. Sec. 407.Demonstration Pilot Programs for New Technologies. Sec. 408.Grants. Sec. 409.Private Sector Fleets. Sec. 410.Clean School Buses. Sec. 411.Limitations on the Scope of the Ordinance. Sec. 412.Reporting.Sec. 420.City Undertaking. Sec. 421.Precautionary Principle. Sec. 422.Severability. Sec. 423.No Conflict with Federal or State Law. Sec. 424.Undertaking for the General Welfare. Sec. 425.San Francisco Municipal Railway Buses. Sec. 426.Clean Construction Assistance and Reporting. Sec. 427.Commuter Benefits Program. 
 SEC. 400.  HEALTHY AIR AND CLEAN TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM. 
	(a)	Title. Sections 400 through 424 of this Chapter shall be known as the Healthy Air And Clean Transportation Ordinance. 
	(b)	Purpose. The Healthy Air And Clean Transportation Ordinance is intended to assist the City in achieving its air pollution and greenhouse gas reduction goals by: promoting the use of vehicles that have zero or super ultra-low emissions, achieve high energy efficiency and use alternative fuels with a low carbon impact; implementing policies to minimize the use of single occupancy vehicles and reduce the total number of passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks in the municipal fleet; maximizing the use of outside sources to fund such programs; encouraging the creation, expansion, and maintenance of alternative fueling infrastructure in the City and at City facilities; encouraging trip reduction, carpooling, and public transit, and to increase bicycle commuting by providing cyclists with the opportunity to securely park their bicycles in or close to their workplaces.
	(c)	Findings. 
		(1)	Air pollution endangers public health. According to the California Air Resources Board (CARB), the levels and concentrations of smog forming, lung-clogging pollutants in the Bay Area, such as ozone and particulate matter (soot particles), not only exceed California's existing health-based standards, but also are often times measured at levels that are two to three times the standards. According to the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD), emissions from motor vehicles are the leading cause of air pollution in the Bay Area. Furthermore, during the summer of 2006, the San Francisco Bay Area endured more days where emissions of ozone-forming pollutants exceeded Federal and State health-based air quality standards than it has experienced in nearly ten years. 
		(2)	According to the American Lung Association of California, high levels of air pollution cause premature death, and aggravate lung illnesses such as acute respiratory infections, asthma, chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and lung cancer. Coughing, wheezing, chest pain, eye irritation, and headaches are common reactions to air pollution. Sensitive groups, like children, the elderly, athletes, and people with compromised immune systems, are even more susceptible to the detrimental health effects caused by air pollution. In these sensitive groups, poor air quality causes more significant health impacts such as breathing difficulties and weakening of the body's ability to resist disease. 
		(3)	According to the California Air Resources Board, the annual health impacts of exceeding state health-based standards for ozone and particulate matter include: 8,800 premature deaths; 8,200 hospital admissions for respiratory disease; 340,000 asthma attacks; 3,000 asthma-related emergency room visits; 3,000 hospital admissions for cardiovascular disease; 4.7 million school absences due to respiratory conditions, including asthma; 2.8 million lost workdays; and, reduced lung function growth rates in children. 
		(4)	Emissions from motor vehicles are a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. Statewide, the California Air Resources Board has found that 41 percent of carbon dioxide emissions, a major greenhouse gas, stem from the transportation sector. In San Francisco, the inventory of greenhouse gas emissions in the City's Climate Action Plan shows that vehicles belonging to San Francisco residents or otherwise traveling in and out of San Francisco contributed 51 percent of all greenhouse gases generated in the City in 1990. In 2002, the Board of Supervisors adopted Resolution 158-02, "Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions," to support efforts to curb global warming and set greenhouse gas emission reduction goals for the City and County of San Francisco. The City's Climate Action Plan establishes the goal of reducing carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions from transportation and other sources in the City to 20 percent below 1990 levels by the year 2012. 
		(5)	Near-total reliance on petroleum for transportation fuel jeopardizes San Francisco's economic security. The San Francisco region and the State of California rely on petroleum for 96 percent of all transportation fuel. Diversifying the supply of transportation fuels available in the San Francisco region, and particularly increasing supplies of alternative fuels that have low carbon impact and are sustainable, will help provide a more stable and secure base for the region's economy by making it less vulnerable to interruptions in petroleum supplies while also improving air quality and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
		(6)	Urban Environmental Accords commit San Francisco to take actions to achieve clean transportation. In 2005, San Francisco became a signatory participant in the Urban Environmental Accords, established on the occasion of the United Nations Environmental Program's World Environment Day in San Francisco. The Accords call on participating cities around the world to reduce smog-forming and other polluting emissions from public fleets by 50 percent in seven years, to expand the availability of affordable public transportation, and to reduce single-occupancy commute trips by 10 percent in seven years. 
		(7)	In 1997, the Board of Supervisors approved the Sustainability Plan for the City and County of San Francisco. The Sustainability Plan states, "[a]chieving and maintaining good air quality is crucial to the public health and economic vitality of San Francisco." 
		(8)	The City and County of San Francisco's fleet includes more than eight hundred (800) clean passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks. These include compressed natural gas, hybrid electric and battery electric vehicles. 
		(9)	Creating a safe, secure place for cyclists to store their bicycles while at work will help to promote alternative modes of transportation and contribute to the City's effort to cut emissions, improve air quality, maximize public transportation and ease congestion, thus reaping tremendous environmental, public health, and quality of life benefits for the City and its residents. Allowing bicycles in office buildings is an effective way to encourage cycling.
(Added by Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010; amended by Ord. 46-12, File No. 111029, App. 3/16/2012, Eff. 4/15/2012)
SEC. 401.  DEFINITIONS. 
	(a)	"Alternative Fuel With Low Carbon Intensity" means any transportation fuel that is less polluting than gasoline or petroleum diesel fuel, as determined by the California Air Resource Board and that is shown to have lower lifecycle carbon emissions than gasoline or petroleum diesel. Alternative Fuels with Low Carbon Intensity may include, but are not limited to: natural gas; propane; biofuels from low carbon, sustainable and preferably local sources; hydrogen produced from low carbon and/or renewable sources; and electricity. 
	(b)	"Alternative Fuel Vehicle" means any motor vehicle powered by alternative fuel with low carbon intensity.
	(c)	"Bus" means any passenger vehicle with a seating capacity of more than fifteen (15) persons. 
	(d)	"City" means City and County of San Francisco. 
	(e)	"Department" means any officer, board, commission, department or other division of the City and County of San Francisco. Department does not include the San Francisco Unified School District, the San Francisco Community College District, the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency, or the San Francisco Housing Authority or any other local, State, or Federal agency. 
	(f)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of the Environment, or his or her designee. 
	(g)	"Emergency Vehicle" means any vehicle publicly owned and operated that is used by a public safety officer for law enforcement purposes, fighting fires or responding to emergency fire calls, or used by emergency medical technicians or paramedics for official purposes. 
	(h)	"Greenhouse gas or greenhouse gas emissions" means and includes all of the following gases: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, and sulfur hexafluoride. 
	(i)	"Light-Duty Truck" means any motor vehicle, with a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500 pounds or less, that is designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is a derivative of such a vehicle, or is available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway operation and use. 
	(j)	"Motor Vehicle" means a self-propelled vehicle. 
	(k)	"Online Green Vehicle Purchase Criteria Document" means a document issued by the Department of the Environment which provides emissions data for general purpose sedans, light duty pickup trucks, and vans with a gross vehicle weight under 10,000 pounds. In order to be listed in the Purchase Criteria Document and approved for purchase by the City under this Chapter, vehicles must have a smog score of 9 or higher and a global warming score of 8 or higher, as reported by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and listed on its driveclean.ca.gov website. 
	(l)	"Passenger Vehicle" means any motor vehicle designed primarily for transportation of persons and with a design capacity of twelve (12) persons or less. 
	(m)	"Public Safety Department" means the San Francisco Police Department, the San Francisco Sheriff's Department, and the San Francisco Fire Department. 
	(n)	"Purchase" means to buy, lease, or otherwise acquire the right to use. 
	(o)	"Remove from service" means to complete filings with the California Department of Motor Vehicles either to remove the City as the motor vehicle owner permanently, or to register the motor vehicle as non-operational for the relevant fiscal year. 
(Added by Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 402.  TENANT BICYCLE PARKING IN EXISTING COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
	(a)	Scope. This Section shall apply to a building the principal occupancy of which is a commercial use, as defined in the Planning Code, that 
		(1)	is in existence on the operative date of this Section, or is proposed to be constructed under an already issued permit but is not yet constructed, and 
		(2)	is not subject to the applicability measures established in Section 155.2(a) of the Planning Code for bicycle parking requirements.
	(b)	Bicycle Access to Commercial Buildings.
		(1)	Applicability. Beginning January 1, 2012, or 30 days after the effective date of this Section, whichever is later, an owner, lessee, manager, or other person who controls a building within the scope of Section 402 shall allow tenants to bring bicycles into the subject building.
		(2)	Request for Limited Access. The owner, lessee, manager, or other person who controls a building within the scope of Section 402 who wishes to prescribe specific details and limitations on bicycle access to the subject building shall complete a Bicycle Access Plan in accordance with subsection (b)(3) below.
		(3)	Bicycle Access Plan.
			(A)	Completion of Plan. The Bicycle Access Plan ("Plan") shall be in writing on a form provided by the Department of the Environment. Bicycle access shall be granted to the requesting tenant or1 and its employees in accordance with the Plan.
			(B)	Plan Information. The Plan shall include:
				(i)	the location of entrances;
				(ii)	route to elevators and/or stairs that accommodate bicycle access;
				(iii)	the route to a designated area for bicycle parking on an accessible level if such bicycle parking is made available; and
				(iv)	such other information as the Department of the Environment may require.
				The Plan shall provide that bicycle access is available, at a minimum, during the regular operating hours of the subject building.
			(C)	Plan Amendment. The Plan may be amended from time to time to accommodate requests from other tenants or to provide bicycle access under this Section 402.
		(4)	Exception.
			(A)	Application. The owner, lessee, manager, or other person who controls a building may apply to the Director of the Department of the Environment for an exception if:
				(i)	the building's elevators are not available for bicycle access because unique circumstances exist involving substantial safety risks directly related to the use of such elevator; or
				(ii)	there is alternate covered off-street parking or alternate indoor no-cost bicycle parking that meets the layout and security requirements for Class 1 and Class 2 bicycle parking spaces as established by Planning Code Sections 155.1 and 155.2 and is available on the premises or within three blocks or 750 feet, whichever is less, of the subject building sufficient to accommodate all tenants or2 of the building requesting bicycle access.
				The application for an exception shall be submitted to the Department of the Environment in the manner required by that Department. The application shall include the reasons for the application for an exception and supporting documentation.
			(B)	Department of Environment's Consultation with Department of Building Inspection and Municipal Transportation Agency.
				(i)	If an exception is sought under subsection (b)(4)(A)(i) above, the Department of Environment shall request the Department of Building Inspection to conduct an inspection of the building and advise the Department of Environment whether, in the opinion of the Department of Building Inspection, bicycle access to the building involves substantial safety risks.
				(ii)	If an exception is sought under subsection (b)(4)(A)(ii) above, the Department of Environment shall request the Livable Streets Subdivision of the Municipal Transportation Agency and/or designated bicycle planner to conduct an inspection of the secure alternate covered off-street or secure indoor no-cost bicycle parking and advise the Department of Environment whether, in its opinion, the proposed bicycle parking is adequate.
			(C)	Department of Environment's Decision on Application. The Department of Environment shall make a determination on the application for an exception within a reasonable period of time after receiving the advice of the Department of Building Inspection and/or the Municipal Transportation Agency provided for in subsection (b)(4)(B) above. The Department of Environment's letter of exception or denial shall be sent to the owner, lessee, manager, or other person in control of the building by certified mail, return receipt requested.
		(5)	Posting and Availability of Bicycle Access Plan or Letter of Exception. 
			(A)3	Every owner, lessee, manager, or other person in control of a building subject to this Section 402 shall post in the building lobby each Bicycle Access Plan that is in effect and any letter of exception granted by the Department of Environment, or shall post a notice indicating that the Plan or letter of exception is available in the office of the building manager upon request. Such posting shall be made within five days of completion and implementation of the Plan or Plans or any amendment thereto or within five days of the Department of the Environment's granting of an exception. If the Department of Environment denies an application for an exception, a Bicycle Access Plan shall be posted within twenty days of receipt of such determination.
			(B)	The above posting shall either
				(i)	notify the requesting tenants of their right to bicycle access in accordance with the Plan or
				(ii)	include the basis or bases for the exception and, if applicable, the route to alternate off-street or indoor parking.
		(6)	Space for Bicycles. Nothing in this Section 402 shall be construed to require an owner, lessee, manager, or other person who is in control of a building within the scope of this Section 402 to provide space outside the tenant leased space for bicycles brought into such building.
		(7)	Unsafe Conditions. Nothing in this Section 402 shall be construed to require an owner, lessee, manager, or other person who is in control of a building within the scope of this Section 402 to permit a bicycle to be parked in a manner that violates building or fire codes or any other applicable law, rule, or code, or which otherwise impedes ingress or egress to such building. In an emergency, whenever elevator use is prohibited, bicycles shall not be permitted to be transported through any means of egress.
(Added by Ord. 46-12, File No. 111029, App. 3/16/2012, Eff. 4/15/2012; amended by Ord. 183-13, File No. 130528, App. 8/7/2013, Eff. 9/6/2013)
CODIFICATION NOTE
1.	So in Ord. 183-13.
2.	So in Ord. 183-13.
3.	The designations for the subdivisions of this division (b)(5) were provided by the codifier.
SEC. 403.  REDUCING THE MUNICIPAL FLEET. 
	(a)	Implementing Transit-First. 
		(1)	No later than March 1, 2011, all officers, boards, commissions and department heads responsible for departments that require transportation to fulfill their official duties, and other City officials assigned City motor vehicles, shall implement the City's voter-approved Transit-First Policy (San Francisco Charter Section 8A.115) by adopting and implementing written policies that 
			(A)	maximize the use of public transit, including taxis, vanpools, and car-sharing; 
			(B)	facilitate travel by bicycle, or on foot; and, 
			(C)	minimize the use of single-occupancy motor vehicles, for travel required in the performance of public duties. 
		(2)	The Department of the Environment shall provide technical assistance to departments and City officials subject to this requirement in developing complying policies and implementation procedures and in coordinating policies and procedures among City departments. 
		(3)	No later than July 1, 2011, and every year thereafter, each department and City official subject to this requirement shall submit its written policies to the Department of the Environment and the Controller. 
		(4)	No later than July 1, 2012, and every year thereafter, each department and City official subject to this requirement shall, in a form approved by the Department of the Environment, include with its written policies a report on its success in substituting transit-first modes of transportation for single-occupancy motor vehicle transportation. Such reports shall be subject to audit by the Controller. 
		(5)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Ordinance or other City law, the Controller shall refuse to certify any expenditure by the City for the purchase of any passenger vehicle or light duty truck by any officers, boards, commissions or departments subject to this requirement for so long as the Controller finds, in his or her sole discretion, that such officers, boards, commissions, or departments have failed to adopt a satisfactory transit-first policy, or to implement the policy adopted, or failed to justify the purchase of a new or replacement vehicle in lieu of driving alternatives as identified in Section 403(a)(1). 
	(b)	Reducing the Number of Passenger Vehicles and Light-Duty Trucks in the Municipal Fleet. 
		(1)	Beginning July 1, 2011, and each year thereafter through July 1, 2015, the City Administrator and each Department head or other City official with jurisdiction over passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks used for City business shall remove from service without replacement at least 5 percent of the existing total number of passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks in the portion of the municipal fleet under his or her jurisdiction. 
		(2)	Beginning no later than July 1, 2015, and each year thereafter, the City Administrator and each Department head or other City official with jurisdiction over passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks used for City business shall remove from service all passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks in the municipal fleet that are 12 years old or older, which removal may be included in the reductions required by subsection (1) above. No later than July 1, 2014, the City Administrator and each Department head or other City official subject to this subsection shall submit to the Director and the City Administrator, in a format specified by the Director, a written plan for implementing this requirement. 
		(3)	Monitoring Fleet Reductions. No later than July 1, 2011 and every year thereafter, the City Administrator and each Department head or other City official with jurisdiction over passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks used for City business shall submit to the Board of Supervisor's Budget Analyst, in a format specified by the Director, in consultation with the Controller, a report of that official's progress in meeting the annual fleet reduction requirements of Section 403(b)(1) and (2). 
	(c)	Waivers. The Director of the Department of Environment may waive the requirements of Section 403(b)(1) and (2) in whole or in part where the Director finds that the mandated fleet reductions would unduly interfere with the department's ability to discharge its official functions. In that case, the Director, in consultation with the City Administrator, may require the department to implement an alternative plan to reduce the department's fleet greenhouse gas emissions. 
	(d)	Capital Projects. In determining and implementing required reductions to the municipal fleet for purposes of subsection (b), the City Administrator or a Department head or other City official with jurisdiction over passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks used for City business may, with the prior written approval of the Director, exclude for the duration of a capital project any new vehicles required for that project. Those vehicles must have the lowest emission and highest efficiency ratings available and suitable for their intended use. 
(Added by Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010)
SEC. 404.  NEW OR REPLACEMENT MOTOR VEHICLES. 
	(a)	Unless granted a waiver under Section 404(b) or exempt under subsection 404(c), City officials may not purchase or authorize the purchase of any motor vehicle unless the purchase complies with each of the following: 
		(1)	The purchase complies with the Transit-First policy required under Section 403(a) and adopted by the department or City official for whose use the vehicle is principally intended; 
		(2)	A passenger vehicle or light-duty truck requested for purchase is an approved make and model under the applicable Online Green Vehicle Purchase Criteria Document; and, 
		(3)	The motor vehicle requested for purchase meets all applicable safety standards and other requirements for the intended use of the vehicle. 
	(b)	Waivers. The Director of the Department of Environment may waive the requirements of Section 404(a) where the Director finds that 
		(1)	there is no passenger vehicle or light-duty truck approved by the Online Green Vehicle Criteria Document that meets all applicable safety standards and other requirements for the intended use of the motor vehicle; or 
		(2)	the passenger vehicle or light-duty truck will be used primarily outside of the geographic limits of the City and County of San Francisco in location (s) which lack required fueling or other infrastructure required for a complying motor vehicle. 
	(c)	Exemptions. This Section shall not apply in the following circumstances: 
		(1)	To the purchase of emergency vehicles where the Public Safety Department concludes, after consultation with the Department of the Environment, that the purchase of a complying vehicle is not feasible or would otherwise unduly interfere with the Department's public safety mission. 
		(2)	To the acquisition of buses by the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Authority for public transportation purposes. 
		(3)	To any purchase necessary to respond to an emergency that meets the criteria set in Administrative Code Sections 21.15(a) or 6.60. In such cases, the department shall, to the extent feasible under the circumstances, acquire the noncomplying vehicles only for a term anticipated to meet the emergency need. Any City department invoking this exemption shall promptly notify the City Administrator and the Director, in writing, of the purchase and the emergency that prevented compliance with this section. 
		(4)	Wherever the purchase of a passenger vehicle or light-duty truck is exempt from the requirements of this section, City departments and officials shall select a vehicle with as low emissions and high efficiency ratings as possible. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 405.  HEALTHY AIR AND CLEAN TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION. 
	(a)	The Director, in consultation with the City Administrator, shall implement and administer the Healthy Air and Clean Transportation Program, and, except as provided elsewhere in this Ordinance, the Director may from time to time promulgate appropriate rules, regulations and guidelines for such purposes. 
	(b)	The Department of the Environment shall issue, and update at least annually, an Online Green Vehicle Purchase Criteria Document listing baseline smog and global emission scores, including updates to those scores, for vehicles that may be purchased by City departments, and which shall govern the purchase of such vehicles in accordance with Section 404. 
	(c)	The Department of the Environment shall assist the City Administrator and all Departments in developing programs and implementing policies to achieve the Transit-First, municipal fleet retirement and reduction, and purchasing requirements of this Ordinance. 
	(d)	Subject to the budget, fiscal and Civil Service provisions of the Charter, the Director may appoint an individual who, under the direction of the Director and the Commission on the Environment, shall be responsible for the day-today operations of the Healthy Air and Clean Transportation Program, including but not limited to managing the day-to-day operations of the program, supervising staff and managing the budget. 
	(e)	City Administrator Regulations. The City Administrator shall, in consultation with the Department of the Environment, Controller, and other City officials with authority to purchase motor vehicles, promulgate regulations for approval of all purchases of passenger vehicles and light duty trucks which shall include, but not be limited to, a requirement that each request be accompanied by a written explanation of how the requested purchase complies with the City's Transit-First Policy and the Department's own policies as set forth in its reporting under Section 403(d).
	(f)	The Controller shall not certify any City expenditure for the purchase of a motor vehicle, or for registration with the California Department of Motor Vehicles of any motor vehicle, unless the purchase complies with all of the requirements of this Ordinance. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 406.  INFRASTRUCTURE FOR ALTERNATIVE FUELS WITH LOW CARBON INTENSITY. 
	(a)	Alternative Fuel Infrastructure. The Department of the Environment, in consultation with other interested City departments, shall facilitate the development of fueling facilities for alternative fuels with low carbon intensity for municipal and privately owned vehicles, including, but not limited to, infrastructure for electric transportation, including recommending necessary legislation to the Board of Supervisors. 
	(b)	The Department of Environment shall seek funding sources for developing public and private alternative fueling facilities and other products and services to support the operation of alternative fuel vehicles with low carbon intensity. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/ 2010) 
SEC. 407.  DEMONSTRATION PILOT PROGRAMS FOR NEW TECHNOLOGIES. 
	(a)	The Department of Environment shall seek funding for the City to participate in demonstration and other pilot programs designed to test promising clean vehicle or related technologies where the Director of the Department of the Environment concludes that the City's participation in such programs may establish the viability of the technologies and/or advance their commercial availability. 
	(b)	Contracts and grants or awards in furtherance of such demonstration or other pilot programs with a duration of no more than two years are not subject to the contracting requirements of the Administrative Code or Environment Code, but shall be subject to the requirements of the San Francisco Sunshine Ordinance, Administrative Code Chapter 67. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 408.  GRANTS. 
	The Department of Environment shall coordinate all grant applications on behalf of the City and County of San Francisco for grants to support clean vehicle and alternative fuel programs, except that it may assist the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, San Francisco Airport, Port of San Francisco, and San Francisco Municipal Transportation Authority with grant applications only upon request. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 409.  PRIVATE SECTOR FLEETS. 
	The Department of the Environment shall implement programs to encourage City residents and private fleet operators to purchase and operate vehicles that have zero emissions, supper ultra low emissions, high-energy efficiency and/or use alternative fuels with low carbon intensity, including recommending legislation to the Board of Supervisors necessary to achieve these objectives. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/ 2010) 
SEC. 410.  CLEAN SCHOOL BUSES. 
	Upon request, the Department of the Environment may assist the San Francisco Unified School District with developing bid specifications and other contract documents for more energy efficient, alternative fuel or best available emission control technology school bus services and with identifying possible grants for clean school buses. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/ 2010) 
SEC. 411.  LIMITATIONS ON THE SCOPE OF THE ORDINANCE. 
	Consistent with the Charter and other applicable State and Federal law, this Healthy Air And Clean Transportation Ordinance shall not apply to the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, San Francisco Airport, Port of San Francisco, or San Francisco Municipal Transportation Authority to the extent its requirements would conflict with those laws or otherwise interfere with the discharge of those functions placed under the direct jurisdiction of the department. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/ 2010) 
SEC. 412.  REPORTING. 
	No later than July 1, 2012 and regularly thereafter, the Department of the Environment shall report to the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors on steps taken towards implementing this Ordinance and recommend any legislation necessary to achieve its objectives. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 420.  CITY UNDERTAKING. 
	Under the Healthy Air and Clean Transportation Ordinance, the City wishes to exercise its power to make economic decisions involving its own funds as a participant in the marketplace and to conduct its own business as a municipal corporation to ensure that purchases and expenditures of public monies are made in a manner consistent with the policy of improving the air quality in the City and doing its part to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and curb global warming through the purchase and use of vehicles that have low emissions, high energy efficiency and or use alternative fuels with a low carbon intensity. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 421.  PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE. 
	The Healthy Air and Clean Transportation Ordinance applies the City's Precautionary Principle Policy set forth in Chapter 1 of the Environment Code to the selection of vehicles and non-vehicular motorized equipment by creating a preference for vehicles and non-vehicular motorized equipment with super ultra low emissions, high energy efficiency or that use alternative fuels with a low carbon intensity that minimize impacts on human health and natural resources. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 422.  SEVERABILITY. 
	If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the Ordinance. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed this Ordinance and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard to whether any portion of this Ordinance would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/ 2010) 
SEC. 423.  NO CONFLICT WITH FEDERAL OR STATE LAW. 
	Nothing in this Ordinance shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any requirement, power or duty in conflict with any Federal or State law. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 424.  UNDERTAKING FOR THE GENERAL WELFARE. 
	In undertaking the implementation of this Ordinance, the City is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officer and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/ 2010) 
SEC. 425.  SAN FRANCISCO MUNICIPAL RAILWAY BUSES. 
	Acquisition of Clean Muni Buses. Muni shall replace all pre-1991 diesel buses on or before January 1, 2007. 
	Phase Out of Highly Polluting Muni Diesel Buses. Muni shall remove from active or reserve service and shall no longer operate any diesel bus that exceeds its 12 year useful life based on the following schedule: 
	(1)	All diesel buses that were purchased on or before December 31, 1988 shall be removed from active or reserve service on or before December 31, 2004; 
	(2)	All diesel buses that were purchased on or before December 31, 1989 shall be removed from active or reserve service on or before December 31, 2005; 
	(3)	All diesel buses that were purchased on or before December 31, 1990 shall be removed from active or reserve service on or before December 31, 2006. 
	Extensions. If replacement buses are not commercially available or unforeseen circumstances prevent Muni from procuring new buses on a timely basis, Muni may seek a one-time extension of up to twelve months from the San Francisco Transportation Authority (TA) for any of the aforementioned deadlines. Approval for such extensions shall require eight or more votes by the Transportation Authority Board of Commissioners. Extension requests shall be submitted in writing at least sixty days prior to the deadline and shall include a detailed accounting of why Muni is unable to meet its obligations under this measure. Extension requests shall also include a list of specific actions that Muni will undertake to offset the emission reductions that would have resulted if no extension were granted. Proposed emission reductions should benefit Muni passengers or residents living near diesel bus routes or diesel bus yards. All extension requests shall be evaluated by the Department of the Environment to determine the validity of proposed emission reductions. The Department of the Environment shall report its findings to the Board of Commissioners at least one week prior to the extension request hearing date. 
	Notwithstanding Section 404(c)(2), the provisions of Section 404 shall apply to the acquisition of buses by Muni for its fleet. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 426.  CLEAN CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE AND REPORTING. 
	(a)	Definitions: 
		(1)	"Most effective verified diesel emission control strategy" means a device, system or strategy that is verified pursuant to Division 3 Chapter 14 of Title 13 of the California Code of Regulations to achieve the highest level of pollution control from an off-road vehicle. 
		(2)	"Off-road engine" mean a diesel internal combustion engine (including the fuel system) including without limitation, internal combustion engines used to power excavators, backhoes, bulldozers or similar equipment used in any City construction projects. "Off-road engine" does not include portable engines or stationary engines (engines that remain at one location for more than 12 months). 
		(3)	"Off-road vehicle" means a vehicle that is propelled by an off-road engine of twenty-five (25) horsepower or greater, including, without limitation, excavators, backhoes, bulldozers and similar equipment used in any project subject to this Chapter. "Off-road vehicle" does not include a horticultural maintenance vehicle used for landscaping purposes that is powered by an off-road engine of sixty-five (65) horsepower or less and that is not used in any construction program or project. "Off-road vehicle" does not include portable equipment. 
		(4)	"Tier 2 standards" are those standards for an off-road engine as described in Division 3, Chapter 9, Article 4, Section 2423(b)(1)(A) of Title 13 of the California Code of Regulations, as amended. 
	(b)	Technical Assistance to Local Businesses. The Department of the Environment shall provide technical assistance to businesses certified as Local Businesses Enterprises (LBEs) by the Human Rights Commission and other local businesses in securing available local, State and Federal public incentive funding to retro-fit, repower or replace off-road vehicles or off-road engines operated by such businesses within the City. 
	(c)	Annual Reporting Requirement. The Department of the Environment annually shall prepare and distribute to City departments with off-road vehicles or off-road engines summary information, including application procedures and deadlines, about available local, State and Federal public incentive programs to retrofit, re-power, or replace older, more polluting diesel equipment. The Department of the Environment shall include in the Annual Report to the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors, required in Section 414, the following: 
		(1)	information supplied to the Department of the Environment by City Departments about the extent to which each City Department's off-road vehicle and off-road engine fleet meets or exceeds either Tier 2 standards for off-road engines or utilizes the most effective verified diesel emission control strategy, 
		(2)	a summary of the results of grant applications made and awarded for the prior year to retro-fit, repower or replace off-road vehicles and engines in the City's fleet, including fleet upgrades funded and completed, 
		(3)	a summary of technical assistance provided to LBEs and other local businesses, and results, if known, and 
		(4)	recommendations to the Board of Supervisors, Mayor, and City Departments for procedural, policy, or legislative changes to reduce air pollution emanating from off-road vehicles and off-road engines. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
SEC. 427.  COMMUTER BENEFITS PROGRAM. 
	(a)	Definitions. Whenever used in this Section, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below. 
		(1)	"Alternative Commute Mode" shall mean public transit (bus, train, ferry, etc.), van-pool, carpool (including "casual carpool"), bicycling, and walking. 
		(2)	"City" shall mean the City and County of San Francisco. 
		(3)	"Covered Employee" shall mean any person who: (A) Performed an average of at least ten (10) hours of work per week for compensation within the geographic boundaries of San Francisco for the same employer within the previous calendar month; and (B) Qualifies as an employee entitled to payment of a minimum wage from the employer under the California minimum wage law, as provided under Section 1197 of the California Labor Code and wage orders published by the California Industrial Welfare Commission, or is a participant in a Welfare-to-Work Program. 
		(4)	"Covered Employer" shall mean an employer for which an average of twenty (20) or more persons per week perform work for compensation. In determining the number of persons performing work for an employer during a given week, all persons performing work for compensation on a full-time, part-time or temporary basis, including those who perform work outside of the geographic boundaries of San Francisco, shall be counted, including persons made available to work through the services of a temporary services or staffing agency or similar entity. 
		(5)	"Employer" shall mean any person, as defined in Section 18 of the California Labor Code, including corporate officers or executives, who directly or indirectly, or through an agent or any other person, except through the services of a temporary services or staffing agency or similar entity, employs or exercises control over the wages, hours or working conditions of an employee. "Employer" shall not include any governmental entity. 
		(6)	"Transit Pass" shall mean any pass, token, fare card, voucher or similar item entitling a person to transportation on public transit within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. § 132(f)(5)(A), as the Federal law may be amended from time to time, including but not limited to, travel by ferry, bus, trolley, streetcar, light rail or train by MUNI, BART, AMTRAK, CALTRAIN, SAMTRANS or GOLDEN GATE TRANSIT.
		(7)	"Transportation Benefit Program" shall mean the program set forth in subsection (b). 
		(8)	"Vanpool" shall mean a "commuter highway vehicle" within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. § 132(f)(5)(B), as the federal law may be amended from time to time, which currently means any highway vehicle: 
			(A) 	the seating capacity of which is at least 6 adults (not including the driver), and 
			(B) 	at least 80% of the mileage use of which can reasonably be expected to be (i) for the purpose of transporting employees in connection with travel between their residences and their place of employment; and (ii) on trips during which the number of employees transported for such purposes is at least 1/2 of the seating capacity of such vehicle (not including the driver). 
	(b)	Transportation Benefits Program. All Covered Employers shall provide at least one of the following transportation benefit programs to Covered Employees: 
		(1)	A Pre-Tax Election: A program, consistent with 26 U.S.C. § 132(f), allowing employees to elect to exclude from taxable wages and compensation, employee commuting costs incurred for transit passes or vanpool charges (but not for parking), up to maximum level allowed by Federal Tax Law, 26 U.S.C. 132 (f)(2)(A); 
		(2)	Employer Paid Benefit: A program whereby the employer supplies a transit pass for the public transit system requested by each Covered Employee or reimbursement for equivalent vanpool charges at least equal in value to the purchase price of the appropriate benefit, which shall not exceed the cost of an adult San Francisco MUNI Fast Pass; or 
		(3)	Employer Provided Transit: Transportation furnished by the employer at no cost to the covered employee in a vanpool or bus, or similar multi-passenger vehicle operated by or for the employer. 
	(c)	Administration and Enforcement. 
		(1)	The Director of the Department of the Environment, in consultation with the San Francisco Office of Labor Standards Enforcement shall promulgate rules and regulations to implement the Transportation Benefits Program. Such rules and regulations shall, to the extent consistent with this Ordinance, conform to IRS regulations under 26 U.S.C. § 132(f), and rules for the City's Paid Sick Leave Ordinance, Administrative Code Section 12W and Health Care Security Ordinance, Administrative Code Chapter 14. 
		(2)	The Department of the Environment shall maintain an education and advice program to assist employers with meeting the requirements of the Transit Benefit Program. 
		(3)	Any Covered Employer who fails to offer at least one transportation benefit programs to Covered Employees as required by Section 421(b) shall be guilty of an infraction. If charged as an infraction, upon conviction thereof, said person shall be punished by (A) a fine not exceeding $100.00 for a first violation, (B) a fine not exceeding $200.00 for a second violation within the same year, and (C) a fine not exceeding $500.00 for each additional violation within the same year. 
		(4)	The Director of the Department of the Environment, or his or her designee, may issue administrative citations to any Covered Employer who fails to provide at least one transportation benefit programs to Covered Employees as required by Section 421(b). San Francisco Administrative Code Chapter 100, "Procedures Governing the Imposition of Administrative Fines," is hereby incorporated in its entirety and shall govern the amount of fees and the procedure for imposition, enforcement, collection, and administrative review of administrative citations issued to enforce this Section 184.77. 
		(5)	The City may not recover both administrative and civil penalties for the same violation. Penalties collected under this Chapter, which may include recovery of enforcement costs, shall be used to fund implementation and enforcement of the Transportation Benefits Program. 
	(d)	Emergency Ride Home Program. The Department of the Environment is hereby authorized to establish an Emergency Ride Home Program and, to the extent funding is available from the Bay Area Air Quality Management District's Transportation Fund for Clean Air, the San Francisco Transportation Authority, or other sources, to reimburse persons who commute to worksites in San Francisco using an alternative commute mode, for transportation costs to return home, or to a transit spot or remotely parked car, where such costs resulting from an illness or emergency of the commuter or immediate family, or other verifiable, unexpected events out of the commuter's control. The Department of the Environment shall adopt rules and regulations to implement this program. 
(Ord. 278-10, File No. 101009, App. 11/18/2010) 
CHAPTER 5:
RESOURCE CONSERVATION ORDINANCE 
Sec. 500.Findings. Sec. 501.Definitions. Sec. 502.Waste Reduction by City Departments. Sec. 503.Departmental Waste Assessment. Sec. 504.Resource Conservation Plan. Sec. 505.Janitorial Contracts. Sec. 506.Purchase and Use of Printing and Writing Paper Products. Sec. 509. Non-PVC Plastics. Sec. 510.Annual Reports. Sec. 511.Guidelines. Sec. 513.Penalty. Sec. 514.Severability. 
SEC. 500.  FINDINGS. 
	The Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco hereby finds and declares as follows: 
	(A)	The California Integrated Waste Management Act (Public Resources Code § 40000 et seq.) requires all cities and counties to reduce their waste by 50% by the year 2000 or face potential penalties of up to $10,000 per day. The City must take a leadership role and act quickly and responsibly to implement the necessary measures to achieve this mandate. 
	(B)	City departmental operations and activities have been found to contribute significantly to San Francisco's solid waste stream. The waste management and buy recycled provisions of this ordinance are necessary to help departments reduce their waste. 
	(C)	On September 14, 1998, the President of the United States signed Executive Order 13101 Greening the Government through Waste Prevention, Recycling, and Federal Acquisition to "strengthen the role of the Federal government as an enlightened, environmentally conscious and concerned consumer." The State and Federal governments have strongly encouraged local governments to procure recycled and environmentally preferable products and services as a way to increase market demand for such products. 
	(D)	Local agencies that use appropriated federal funds to procure $10,000 or more worth of a designated item in a given year are subject to the federal comprehensive procurement guidelines for recycled products. 
	(E)	Pursuant to Board of Supervisors Resolution No. 246-99, Establishing Dioxin as a High Priority for Immediate Action for the City and County of San Francisco in Order to Restore Water Quality and Protect the Public Health and Enabling the San Francisco Commission on the Environment to Create a Task Force and Report Back on Strategies to Ensure that Less Toxic, Non-Chlorinated Sustainable Products and Processes are Actively Supported, each City department must report to the Board of Supervisors on strategies they are using to ensure that less-toxic, non-chlorinated products sustainable alternative products, such as chlorine-free paper and PVC-free plastics, are actively supported and used. 
	(F)	The landfill capacity available to San Francisco at the Altamont Landfill is expected to last only until approximately 2012. 
	(G)	The discard of useable or recyclable materials into the waste stream deprives the City of the economic benefit of the value of these materials while creating unnecessary expenses for collection and disposal. 
	(H)	This Chapter applies the Precautionary Principle to the selection of commodities used in City operations that minimize impacts on natural resources by maximizing recycled content, recycling, and reuse. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.1; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000)
SEC. 501.  DEFINITIONS. 
	As used in this Chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings: 
	"City department" means any department of the City and County of San Francisco, and does not include any other local agency or any federal or State agency, including but not limited to the San Francisco School District, the San Francisco Community College District, the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency and the San Francisco Housing Authority. 
	"Contract" means a binding written agreement for the provision of goods and/or services to be provided at the expense of the City or to be paid out of monies deposited in the treasury or out of trust monies under control of the City between a person, firm, corporation or other entity, including a governmental entity, and a City department. This Chapter shall not apply to contracts entered into or amended to extend the term prior to October 1, 2000. 
	"Contractor" means a person, firm, corporation or other entity, including a governmental entity, that enters into a contract with a City department. 
	"Contracting officer" means that officer or employee of the City authorized under the Charter or Municipal Code to enter into a contract on behalf of the City. "Contracting officer" shall include the Mayor, each department head or general manager and other employees of the City authorized to enter into contracts on behalf of the City. 
	"Director" means the Director of the Department of the Environment or his or her designee. 
	"Document Imaging" means the conversion of paper documents into electronic images on a computer, thereby reducing the amount of paper used for copying and printing. A document imaging system includes the ability to scan, store, index, retrieve and search documents. 
	"Post-consumer material" means those products generated by a business or consumer which have served their intended end use, and which have been diverted from becoming solid waste for purposes of recycling. 
	"Processed Chlorine Free" means recycled paper in which the recycled content is unbleached or bleached without chlorine or chlorine derivatives. Any virgin material portion of the paper must be totally chlorine free (i.e., unbleached or processed with a sequence that includes no chlorine or chlorine derivatives). 
	"Purchaser" means the Purchaser of the City or his or her designee. 
	"Recyclable material" means any material or product separated or capable of being separated at its point of discard or from the solid waste stream for utilization as a raw material in the manufacture of a new product. 
	"Recycle" or "recycling" means the process of collecting, sorting, cleaning, treating, reusing or reconstituting a material that would otherwise become a solid waste and/or hazardous waste, and returning it to the economic mainstream in the form of a raw material for new, reused or reconstituted products which may be used in the marketplace. 
	"Reuse" means the secondary use of a product or its packaging for its original intended purpose or another function which does not require the product to be treated or reconstituted in any way. 
	"Solid Waste" or "Waste" has the same meaning as "solid waste" in the California Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989, Public Resources Code Section 40191. 
	"U.S. EPA" means the United States Environmental Protection Agency. 
	"Waste prevention" means discontinuing the use of an unnecessary material rather than disposing of it to the waste stream and shall include: 
		(1)	reduced resource use per unit of product; 
		(2)	increased product life; and 
		(3)	decreased consumption. 
	"Waste Reduction" means the diversion of materials, products and packaging from disposal through waste prevention, reuse, recycling and/or composting, but does not include steps taken after the material becomes solid waste or actions which would transfer the impacts of land disposal to air or water resources, such as transformation, incineration, pyrolysis, distillation, gasification, or biological conversion (other than composting). 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; amended by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.2; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000; amended by Ord. 210-02, File No. 020784, App. 10/25/2002) 
SEC. 502.  WASTE REDUCTION BY CITY DEPARTMENTS. 
	(a)	It shall be the goal of the City and every City department to (i) maximize purchases of recycled products and (ii) divert from disposal as much solid waste as possible so that the City can meet the state-mandated 50% division requirement. 
	(b)	Within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this Chapter, each City department shall provide to the Director a written commitment signed by its department head to use its best efforts to help the City achieve its overall state-mandated diversion requirement and to maximize purchases of recycled products. Each department shall distribute copies of the written commitment to its employees and contractors within 30 days of execution. 
	(c)	Each City department shall designate at least one person responsible for compliance with this Chapter, including preparation of the Departmental Waste Assessment (see Section 503) and the development and implementation of a Resource Conservation Plan (504) Each department shall advise the Director of the person so designated in the written commitment described in Subsection (b).
	(d)	All assessments, plans and reports required to be submitted to the Director under this Chapter shall be submitted electronically. 
	(e)	Within one-hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date of this Chapter, the director shall make recommendations to departments on the use of document imaging systems for storage, retrieval and public access to departmental records. 
	(f)	All contracts and other similar written agreements shall incorporate this Chapter by reference whenever applicable and shall provide that the failure of any bidder, proposer or contractor to comply with any of its requirements shall be deemed a material breach of contract. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.3; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000) 
SEC. 503.  DEPARTMENTAL WASTE ASSESSMENT. 
	(a)	Guidelines. Within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this Chapter and in accordance with Section 511, the Director will adopt guidelines for conducting a departmental audit to establish a Departmental Waste Assessment. For purposes of this assessment, the volume or weight of all waste generated or disposed of or diverted by a department shall be included, unless such waste is not subject to the diversion requirements contained in the California Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989, Public Resources Code § 40000 et seq. The guidelines shall include, at a minimum: 
		(1)	Procedures for determining whether a department generates a heterogeneous waste stream (a combination of waste types, such as wood, yard debris, metals and food waste) or generates a homogenous waste stream (such as office-type wastes); 
		(2)	Guidance on determining which wastes should be included in a waste assessment (including how to account for wastes not subject to state diversion requirements); 
		(3)	How to determine which facilities should be included in a waste assessment; and 
		(4)	How to estimate/calculate volumes, weights and costs associated with all waste. 
	(b)	Within twelve (12) months of the effective date of this Chapter, each department that generates a heterogeneous waste stream (As determined by the Director's guidelines) shall conduct and submit to the Director for review and approval a Departmental Waste Assessment. 
	(c)	Within eighteen (18) months of the effective date of this Chapter, each department that generates a homogenous waste stream (As determined by the Director's guidelines) shall conduct and submit to the Director for review and approval a Departmental Waste Assessment. 
	(d)	Each department shall update its Departmental Waste Assessment annually and submit it to the Director for approval. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.4; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000) 
SEC. 504.  RESOURCE CONSERVATION PLAN. 
	(a)	Guidelines. Within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this Chapter and in accordance with Section 511, the Director will issue guidelines for development and implementation of a Resource Conservation Plan. The guidelines will cover, at a minimum, the following elements of a Resource Conservation Plan: 
		(1)	Waste reduction, prevention and reuse; 
		(2)	Facilitation of collection of recyclable materials; 
		(3)	Maximizing purchases of recycled products; 
		(4)	Operational issues that influence the ability of the City department to recycle, such as janitorial contracts; 
		(5)	Product substitution; 
		(6)	Equipment purchases that could facilitate recycling; 
		(7)	Development of a diversion goal and methods of evaluating whether the goal is being met; and 
		(8)	Examples of model programs for heterogeneous and homogenous waste streams. 
	(b)	Within eighteen (18) months of the effective date of this Chapter, each department that generates a heterogeneous waste stream (As determined by the Director's guidelines) shall conduct and submit to the Director for review and approval a Resource Conservation Plan. 
	(c)	Within twenty-four (24) months of the effective date of this Chapter, each department that generates a homogenous waste stream (As determined by the Director's guidelines) shall conduct and submit to the Director for review and approval a Resource Conservation Plan. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.5; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000) 
SEC. 505.  JANITORIAL CONTRACTS. 
	As of six (6) months from the effective date of this Chapter, when the Purchaser or other City department enters into a contract for janitorial services where the City owns or leases at least 50% of the building the Purchaser or other City department shall contractually obligate the janitorial contractor to consolidate recyclable materials from individual City offices to a designated space for pickup by recycling haulers. Consolidation includes collection of recyclable materials from floors or individual offices and transportation to a designated location for pick up by a recycling hauler, but does not include sorting different materials (such as white paper and newspaper) from each other. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.6; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000) 
SEC. 506.  PURCHASE AND USE OF PRINTING AND WRITING PAPER PRODUCTS. 
	(a)	Every publication exhibit, form and letter produced by a City department, including all materials distributed to the public shall be on printing and writing paper products that contain: 
		(1)	A minimum of 30% post-consumer materials for copier and bond paper (including any uncoated duplicating, printer and letterhead paper used in a variety of end use applications such as business forms and offset printing, but excluding high quality papers used for stationery, envelopes and other specialty items); and 
		(2)	A minimum of 30% post-consumer materials for all other printing and writing paper products including, without limitation: publications, forms, letters, letterhead, promotional materials, advertisements, educational pamphlets, newsletters, exhibits, reports, business cards, calendars, commission and committee notices, agendas and minutes, requests for proposals or qualifications, invitations for bids, checks, tickets, high quality papers used for stationery, envelopes and other specialty items and other printed materials. 
		(3)	The minimum level of post-consumer content will be reviewed annually by the Director. Pursuant to Section 511, the Director may raise, but not lower, the minimum level of post-consumer content as higher post-consumer content paper becomes available. 
		(4)	All printing and writing paper products shall be on processed chlorine free paper as it becomes available at a reasonable price. The availability of processed chlorine free paper will be determined by the Director pursuant to Section 511. 
	(b)	All pre-printed materials intended for distribution that are purchased or produced in quantities greater than 50 sheets after the effective date of this Chapter must include a recycled content logo and the percentage of post-consumer material in the paper. 
	(c)	Each City department, including the Purchaser, shall use its best efforts to incorporate the standards set forth in this Section into existing contracts for the provision of printing and writing paper and services. If the City department is unable to amend an existing contract, the City department is authorized to enter into another contract to procure products that do comply with this Section, provided that the City department complies with all other applicable laws. Nothing in this Chapter is or shall be interpreted to require or authorize any City department to breach the terms of a contract. Each City department shall document its efforts pursuant to this Section in a report filed with the Director, explaining the circumstances. 
	(d)	This Section does not apply to commercial sanitary products, paperboard and packaging products, newsprint products or other products not generally considered to be printing or writing paper products. 
	(e)	The contracting officer shall require all suppliers of printing and writing paper products or services to certify the minimum content of post-consumer materials in the products to be provided in the performance of a contract. 
	(f)	Unless specifically provided by court rules or other legal mandates, all pre-printed City forms and other pre-printed material shall be printed on double-sided pages. 
	(g)	In all contracts for printing services for the City, the contract shall specify and require that the contractor use paper products meeting the standards set forth in this Section, and, unless inappropriate for the end use, that the contractor print the document on both sides of the paper. 
	(h)	Any City department seeking the preparation and/or submission of any bid, report, request for proposal, quotation or other document shall specify and require the document to be submitted on paper which meets the requirements in this Chapter and printed on double-sided pages. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; amended by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.7; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000) 
Sec. 507. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.8; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000) 
Sec. 508. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.9; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000) 
SEC. 509.  NON-PVC PLASTICS. 
	Wherever possible, all departments shall obtain non-PVC plastics where appropriate alternative products composed of non-chlorinated materials are available. City departments are not required to procure non-chlorinated products in any of the following circumstances: (i) the product is not available in a reasonable period of time; (ii) the product would fail to meet reasonable performance standards; or (iii) the product is only available at an unreasonable price. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.10; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000) 
SEC. 510.  ANNUAL REPORTS. 
	(a)	Guidelines. Within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this Chapter and in accordance with Section 511, the Director will adopt a form for annual reporting on solid waste diversion. The form shall account for departments in each phase of development of a Departmental Waste Assessment and Resource Conservation Plan and for transition periods. 
	(b)	No later than March 1, 2001, and annually thereafter, each City department shall report solid waste diversion information to the Director, on forms provided by the Director, for the prior fiscal year. On and after March 1, 2003, the report shall contain information on the types and amount of batteries purchased, collected from and recycled by that department for the prior fiscal year. The annual report must contain a copy of any reports made under Subsections 506(c), 507(b) or (c) or 512(e) or (f) during the prior 12-month period. 
	(c)	No later than June 1, 2001, and annually thereafter, the Director shall prepare and submit a written report to the Board of Supervisors summarizing information provided by City departments pursuant to Subsection (b) and describing the status of the implementation of this Chapter. Among other things, the Director's report shall specifically list each City department that failed to submit an annual report or otherwise conform with the requirements of this Chapter. On and after June 1, 2003, the Director's report shall also contain recommendations regarding batteries and the feasibility of "extended producer responsibility." Extended Producer Responsibility extends the traditional responsibilities that producers and distributors have previously been assigned (i.e. worker safety, prevention and treatment of environmental releases from production, financial and legal responsibility for the sound management of production wastes) to include management at the post-consumer stage. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.11; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000; amended by Ord. 21002, File No. 020784, App. 10/25/2002) 
SEC. 511.  GUIDELINES. 
	(a)	The Director shall act as a clearinghouse of information on recycled product availability, performance, and post-consumer material content and shall assist City departments in meeting compliance with the letter and spirit of this Chapter. 
	(b)	The Director shall promulgate any guidelines necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes and requirements of this Chapter. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; amended by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.12; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000)
Sec. 512. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003; repealed by Ord. 115-05, File No. 050595, App. 6/17/2005) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.13; added by Ord. 210-02, File No. 020784, App. 10/25/2002) 
SEC. 513.  PENALTY. 
	(a)	Whenever any City department finds, after an investigation by the contracting officer and the City Attorney, that a person or entity being considered for a contract or under contract with the City has, in connection with the bidding, execution or performance of any City contract: 
		(1)	Falsely represented to the City the nature or character of the products offered, used or supplied under the contract; or 
		(2)	Knowingly provided the City with products in violation of this Chapter, the guidelines adopted pursuant to this Chapter, or contract provisions pertaining to the required use or purchase of recycled products the contracting officer shall have the authority to impose such sanctions or take such other actions as are designed to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. 
	(b)	Measures which are available to a City department to enforce this Chapter upon finding a violation pursuant to Section 513(a) include, but are not limited to the following: 
		(1)	Refusal to certify the award of a contract; 
		(2)	Suspension of a contract; 
		(3)	Ordering the withholding of City funds due the contractor under any City contract; 
		(4)	Ordering the recession of a contract based upon a material breach of contract provisions or pertaining to representations made in bidding, execution or performance of the contract; 
		(5)	Debarment of a bidder, proposer or contractor from eligibility for providing commodities or services to the City for a period not to exceed five years, with a right to review and reconsideration by the contracting City office or department upon a showing of corrective action indicating violations are not likely to reoccur. 
	(c)	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to relieve a contractor of responsibility for providing a satisfactory product. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.14; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 00392, App. 5/12/ 2000; amended by Ord. 210-02, File No. 010784, App. 10/25/2002) 
SEC. 514.  SEVERABILITY. 
	If any part or provision of this Chapter, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this Chapter, including the application of such part or provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect, unless enforcement of this Chapter as so modified by and in response to such invalidation would be grossly inequitable under all of the circumstances or would frustrate the fundamental purposes of this Chapter. To this end, provisions of this Chapter are severable. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21A.15; added by Ord. 83-00, File No. 000392, App. 5/12/2000; amended by Ord. 210-02, File No. 020784, App. 10/25/2002) 
CHAPTER 6:
[RESERVED] 
CHAPTER 7:
GREEN BUILDING REQUIREMENTS FOR CITY BUILDINGS*
Sec. 700.Findings and Purpose. Sec. 701.Definitions. Sec. 702.Municipal Green Building Task Force.Sec. 703.Duties of the Department of the Environment. Sec. 704.Duties of City Departments. Sec. 705.LEED Certification Requirements for Municipal Construction Projects.Sec. 706.San Francisco-Specific LEED Credit Requirements for Municipal Construction Projects.Sec. 707.Collection, Storage and Loading of Recyclable and Compostable Materials.Sec. 708.Construction and Demolition Debris Management.Sec. 709.Water Conservation Retrofit Requirements.Sec. 710.Energy Efficient Lighting Retrofit Requirements.Sec. 711.Indoor Environmental Quality.Sec. 712.Report to the Board of Supervisors.Sec. 713.Waivers.
SEC. 700.  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE. 
	The Board of Supervisors finds that:
	1.	Buildings are one of the distinguishing elements of human civilization. Traditional building design and construction practices have significant negative environmental impacts. In the United States, buildings consume 48 percent of all energy, 76 percent of all electricity, and generate 38 percent of all carbon (CO2) emissions. In San Francisco, buildings consume 54 percent of all energy, 80 percent of all electricity, and generate 56 percent of all carbon emissions. Advanced green buildings can generate their own energy, minimize carbon emissions, produce and process their own water, emphasize reuse of buildings and materials, and provide healthy interior environments.
	2.	The selection of sustainable design features and building materials is consistent with the City's Precautionary Principle Policy. This policy requires that the City consider a full range of alternatives in order to select products and procedures that minimize harm and maximize the protection of public health and natural resources.
	3.	The United States Green Building Council (USGBC) is a non-profit organization committed to a prosperous and sustainable future for our nation through cost-efficient and energy-saving green buildings. LEED® is an internationally-recognized green building certification system, developed by the USGBC.
	4.	Green buildings provide financial benefits while protecting human and environmental health. Total construction costs for buildings seeking LEED certification fall into the existing range of costs for buildings not seeking LEED certification. Green buildings, on average, result in savings of 20 percent of total construction costs over the first 20 years of operation.
(Added and former Sec. 700 repealed by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 701.  DEFINITIONS. 
	The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below.
	(a)	''Alternative Daily Cover" or ''ADC" means materials, other than soil, that have been approved by the California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery ("CalRecycle") or a successor agency for use as a temporary overlay on an exposed landfill face.
	(b)	"Beneficial reuse" means the reuse of material at a landfill that does not include ADC but shall include, but not be limited to, use of the material for or as the following: alternative intermediate cover; final cover foundation layer; liner operations layer; leachate and landfill gas collection system; construction fill; road base; wet weather operations pads and access roads; and, soil amendments for erosion control and landscaping. "Beneficial reuse" does not include disposal of material at a landfill.
	(c)	"BioMass Energy Generation" means the controlled combustion, when separated from other solid waste and used for producing electricity or heat, of wood, wood chips, wood waste, and tree and brush prunings. "Bio-mass Energy Generation" does not include the controlled combustion of recyclable pulp or recyclable paper materials, or medical or hazardous waste.
	(d)	"Building" means:
		(1)	Any structure used for support or shelter of any use or occupancy. "Structure" means that which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner and permanently attached to the ground.
		(2)	"Building" includes office buildings, libraries, recreation centers, museums, airport buildings, public safety buildings, hospitals, clinics, education centers, transportation facilities, cruise ship terminals, marina buildings, convention facilities, and other structures.
		(3)	"Building" does not include machinery, equipment, or appliances installed for manufacture or process purposes only, any construction installation that is not part of a building, or any tunnel, roadway or bridge, or any vehicle or mobile equipment.
	(e)	"CALGreen" means the California State Green Building Code as adopted by San Francisco Building Code Chapter 13C.
	(f)	"City department" means any department of the City and County of San Francisco. City department does not include any other local agency or any federal or State agency, including but not limited to, the San Francisco Unified School District, the San Francisco Community College District, the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency and the San Francisco Housing Authority.
	(g)	"City-owned Facility" means any building owned by the City and County of San Francisco. "City-owned Facility" includes City-owned facilities or portions thereof that the City leases to non-City entities.
	(h)	"City Leasehold" means a building or portion thereof owned by others where the City is a tenant.
	(i)	"City Representative" means the employee of the City who oversees the construction and/or demolition process for a City construction and/or demolition project and is responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with all aspects of the contract documents.
	(j)	"Commission" means the Commission on the Environment.
	(k)	"Commissioning Process" means an independent process to ensure the attainment of quality facilities pursuant to this Chapter. The commissioning process verifies and documents that the energy using systems in buildings are installed, tested, and operate as designed. The Commissioning Process shall coordinate with, but not include, routine inspections performed by the code official having jurisdiction.
	(l)	"Construction and Demolition Debris" or "C & D Debris" means building materials and solid waste generated from construction and demolition activities, including, but not limited to:  fully-cured asphalt; concrete; brick; rock; soil; lumber; gypsum wallboard; cardboard and other associated packaging; roofing material; ceramic tile; carpeting; fixtures; plastic pipe; metals; and, tree stumps and other vegetative matter resulting from land clearing and landscaping for construction, deconstruction, demolition or land developments. "Construction and Demolition Debris" does not include refuse regulated under the 1932 Refuse Collection and Disposal Ordinance or sections of the Municipal Code that implement the provisions of that ordinance, or materials excavated from the public right-of-way. "Construction and Demolition Debris" does not include "hazardous waste," as defined in California Health and Safety Code Sections 25100 et seq.
	(m)	"Construction Project" means any building, planning or construction activity, including demolition, new construction, major alteration, or building additions by a City department at a City-owned Facility, or City Leasehold.
	(n)	"Contractor" means the company or person to whom the City awards a contract for a construction and/or demolition project. The contractor is responsible for complying with all aspects of Section 708 of this Chapter and for ensuring that all subcontractors, lower-tier subcontractors and suppliers also comply.
	(o)	"Deconstruction" means the process of taking apart a structure with the primary goal of preserving the value of all useful building materials, so that they may be reused or recycled.
	(p)	"Demolition Project" means the decimating, razing, ruining, tearing down or wrecking of any facility, structure, pavement, building, wall or fence, whether in whole or in part and whether interior or exterior.
	(q)	"Department" means the Department of the Environment.
	(r)	''Design Phases" means the generally-accepted stages of architectural design:  conceptual design, schematic design, design development and construction documents.
	(s)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of the Environment or his or her designee.
	(t)	"Disposal" means final deposition of material at a legally operating permitted landfill that does not include beneficial reuse or at a permitted transformation facility. A legally operating, permitted landfill includes Class III landfills and inert fills. Disposal of inert materials at inert fills or inert backfill sites does not constitute recycling.
	(u)	"Diversion" means use of material for any purpose other than disposal in a landfill or transformation facility, such as source reduction, reuse, recycling, and composting activities that do not result in material being disposed at permitted landfills and transformation facilities.
	(v)	"Diversion Rate" means the percentage of total material that is diverted from disposal at permitted landfills and transformation facilities through processes such as source reduction, reuse, recycling, and composting.
	(w)	"Green Building Certification Institute" or "GBCI" is the body providing independent third-party LEED certification and professional credentials recognizing excellence in green building performance and practice.
	(x)	"Hazardous Material" means any material defined as hazardous in California Health and Safety Code Sections 25100 et seq., as amended.
	(y)	"Indoor Air Quality" means the quality of indoor air, including the concentration of particulates, fumes, odors, carbon dioxide, etc.
	(z)	"Indoor Environmental Quality" means the quality of the indoor environment, including air quality, thermal quality, acoustical quality, daylight, views and controllability of systems.
	(aa)	"Landfill" means a facility that (i) accepts for disposal in or on land non-hazardous waste such as household, commercial, and industrial waste, and waste generated during construction, remodeling, repair and demolition operations, and (ii) has a valid current solid waste facilities permit from the California Department of Resources Recycling and Recover (CalRecycle).
	(bb)	"Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design" or "LEED®" is an internationally recognized green building certification system developed by the USGBC, providing third-party verification that a building or community was designed and built using strategies aimed at improving performance across all the following metrics: energy savings; water efficiency; CO2 emissions reduction; improved indoor environmental quality; and, stewardship of resources and sensitivity to their impacts. LEED provides building owners and operators with a concise framework for identifying an implementing practical and measurable green building design, construction, operations, and maintenance solutions. LEED certified buildings are rated on a scale from lowest to highest: LEED Certified, LEED Silver, LEED Gold and LEED Platinum. Wherever specific LEED prerequisites or credits are cited, such references are to LEED building Design and Construction (BD+C) 2009. More recent LEED versions may be used, provided the credits and points achieved are at least as stringent as LEED BD+C 2009.
	(cc)	"LEED Accredited Professional" or "LEED AP" means an employee of a City department or a consultant retained by the City through a design or construction contract or other agreement who has fulfilled all requirements and passed the LEED accreditation exam issued by GBCI in applying LEED principles to technical fields of practice in building design, construction and operations.
	(dd)	"LEED Project Administrator" means the individual member of the design team who registers a project with GBCI, and subsequently administers the LEED documentation process. For San Francisco municipal construction projects, the LEED Project Administrator shall be a LEED AP.
	(ee)	"LEED Scorecard" means a summary chart indicating all LEED prerequisites and credits being pursued and reasonably expected to be achieved for a construction project.
	(ff)	"Major Alteration" means construction work that is extensive enough such that normal building operations cannot be performed while the work is in progress, and/or a new certificate of occupancy, or similar official indication that it is fit and ready for use, is required.
	(gg)	"Minimum Project Requirements" or "MPR" means the minimum requirements for projects to become LEED certified, as issued by the USGBC.
	(hh)	"Mixed Construction & Demolition debris" or "Mixed C & D Debris" means "Construction and Demolition Debris" or "C&D Debris," but excluding materials source-separated for reuse or recycling.
	(ii)	"New Construction" means construction from the ground up, including a new building envelope, and new structural, mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems.
	(jj)	"Person" means a natural person, a firm, joint stock company, business concern, association, partnership or corporation or, to the extent permitted by law, governmental entity, including the City and County of San Francisco and its departments, boards and commissions for projects within the nine counties surrounding the San Francisco Bay, and its or their successors or assigns.
	(kk)	"Recover" or "Recovery" means any activity, including source reduction, deconstruction and salvaging, reuse, recycling and com posting, which, causes materials to be recovered for use as a resource and diverted from disposal.
	(ll)	"Recycle" or "Recycling" means the process of collecting, sorting, cleansing, treating, and reconstituting materials that would otherwise become solid waste, and returning them to the economic mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted products which meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the marketplace. "Recycling" does not include "transformation," as defined in Section 40201 of California Public Resources Code.
	(mm)	"Recycling Facility" means an operation or person that collects and processes materials for recycling.
	(nn)	"Registered Facility" means a facility that accepts mixed construction and demolition debris for processing and recycling and holds a valid registration issued by the City and County of San Francisco pursuant to Chapter 14 of the Environment Code.
	(oo)	"Registered Transporter" means a person who removes mixed construction and/or demolition (C&D) debris from a construction and/or demolition site, using a vehicle with more than two axles or two tires per axle (such as a large pickup truck with four tires on the rear axle or three-axle dump trucks), and hauling at least one (1) cubic yard of mixed construction and demolition debris. A "Registered Transporter" must hold a valid registration from the City and County of San Francisco and is obligated to take all mixed C&D material only to a Registered Facility.
	(pp)	"Reuse" means using an object or material again, either for its original purpose or for a similar purpose, without significantly altering the physical form of the object or material.
	(qq)	"Source Reduction" means any action which causes a net reduction in the generation of solid waste. Source reduction includes, but is not limited to, reducing the use of non-recyclable materials, replacing disposable materials and products with reusable materials and products, reducing packaging, reducing the amount of yard wastes generated, establishing garbage rate structures with incentives to reduce waste tonnage generated, and increasing the efficiency of the use of paper, cardboard, glass, metal, plastic, and other materials.
	(rr)	"Source-Separated Materials" means materials that have been separated or kept separate from the solid waste stream, at the point of generation, for the purpose of reuse, recycling or composting in order to return them to the economic mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted products which meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the marketplace.
	(ss)	The "United States Green Building Council" or "USGBC" is a non-profit organizations committed to a prosperous and sustainable future for our nation through cost-efficient and energy-saving green buildings.
(Added and former Sec. 701 repealed by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 702.  MUNICIPAL GREEN BUILDING TASK FORCE. 
	(a)	Establishment and Purpose. The Board of Supervisors establishes the Municipal Green Building Task Force (the "Task Force") to oversee and assist in enhancing the environmental performance of City construction projects pursuant to this Chapter. The Task Force shall review municipal construction projects subject to this Chapter during their design and construction to ensure that the responsible City departments are complying with the requirements of the Chapter, and may advise the Department of the Environment on matters of policy related to this Chapter. The Task Force shall facilitate communication about green building issues throughout the City, and act as an educational forum to increase knowledge and share project-related successes and lessons learned.
	(b)	The Task Force will consist of one member of the public appointed by the Mayor, and a representative with building design, construction and/or finance experience from each of the following City departments:
		(1)	The Department of the Environment;
		(2)	The Division of Building Design and Construction within the Department of Public Works;
		(3)	The Division of Infrastructure Design and Construction within the Department of Public Works;
		(4)	The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission;
		(5)	The Recreation and Park Department;
		(6)	The San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency;
		(7)	The Department of Building Inspection;
		(8)	The Port of San Francisco;
		(9)	The San Francisco International Airport;
		(10)	The San Francisco Public Library;
		(11)	The Department of Public Health; and, 
		(12)	The Real Estate Division within the Department of Administrative Services.
	(c)	The Task Force shall adopt bylaws to govern its operations. At least one member of the Task Force shall be a LEED Accredited Professional.
	(d)	The Department of the Environment shall provide staff for the Task Force.
(Added and former Sec. 702 repealed by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 703.  DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENT. 
	(a)	General Duties Under this Chapter. The Department of the Environment shall:
		(1)	Develop goals, criteria, and strategies for optimizing municipal green building design, construction and operations and make policy recommendations regarding requirements for municipal construction projects to the Board of Supervisors;
		(2)	Develop and oversee a training program in green building practices, including design, construction, alteration, renovation, operation and reuse of buildings for department heads and city architects, engineers, construction managers, building managers, department managers and finance officers employed by the City in order to implement the policies adopted by the Board of Supervisors;
		(3)	Coordinate with the Task Force and other City departments having expertise with, or with responsibility for, compliance with the requirements of this Chapter, and on achieving municipal green building goals including, but not limited to, the Department of Public Works, the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission and the Department of Building Inspection. These departments shall also assist the Director in providing advice, assistance, outreach, and education to other City departments concerning green building practices;
		(4)	Provide technical project oversight and assistance directly to City project teams or through green building technical assistance contracts; and
		(5)	Develop forms and materials necessary for compliance with this Chapter.
	(b)	Guidance, Rules and Regulations. After a public hearing, the Director may promulgate such guidance, forms, performance procedures, rules and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate from time to time to carry out the provisions of this Chapter, including the adoption of forms necessary to implement this Chapter. The Director is authorized to call upon the Task Force and other City departments as necessary and appropriate to assist in developing such guidance, forms, performance procedures, rules and regulations. Such guidance, forms, performance procedures, rules and regulations may include adopting appropriate versions of LEED and adopting or modifying San Francisco-specific LEED requirements for municipal construction projects, as provided in Section 706.
	(c)	The Director shall determine the costs of implementing this Chapter and shall request that relevant City departments provide work orders to the Department to cover the costs of implementing and maintaining the programs required by this Chapter.
(Added and former Sec. 703 repealed by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 704.  DUTIES OF CITY DEPARTMENTS.
	(a)	Each City department, board and commission subject to this Chapter shall administer its construction projects in accordance with the Chapter.
	(b)	Each City department, board and commission subject to this Chapter shall cooperate with, and provide in writing to the Department all information necessary for the Department to carry out its duties under this Chapter.
	(c)	Each City department shall designate an employee contact person for construction projects and green building communications.
	(d)	Each City department shall assist the Director in providing advice, assistance, outreach and education to other City departments concerning municipal green building practices.
	(e)	Appropriate City department personnel shall attend green building related training offered by the Department.
	(f)	The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission may provide energy- or water-related technical project design review assistance directly to City project teams or through technical assistance contracts.
(Added as Sec. 709 by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; renumbered and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
(Former Sec. 704 added and previous Sec. 704 repealed by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; repealed by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 705.  LEED CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
	(a)	 In addition to complying with this Chapter, municipal construction projects shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 13C of the San Francisco Building Code, "The San Francisco Green Building Code."
	(b)	As described in this Chapter, the LEED rating system shall be used to certify the environmental design of the City's municipal construction projects. The minimum requirement for municipal construction projects of 5,000 square feet or more shall be LEED Gold certification by GBCI.
	(c)	In order to achieve LEED Gold certification, municipal construction projects must meet selected San Francisco-specific LEED credit requirements as further specified by Section 706 and this Chapter.
	(d)	Operative Date. This section shall apply to any construction project otherwise subject to the provisions of this Chapter 7 where the initial appropriation request, either whole or partial, is submitted to the board of supervisors after November 1, 2011.
	(e)	Projects Less Than 5,000 Square Feet. For construction projects less than 5,000 square feet and for construction projects of any size not meeting the Minimum Project Requirements to be eligible for LEED certification, the sponsoring City department, in consultation with a LEED AP, shall prepare and submit a conceptual design phase LEED Scorecard to the Department for informational and reporting purposes. The conceptual design phase LEED Scorecard shall demonstrate the maximum LEED credits that are practicable for the project. The sponsoring City department shall pursue these LEED credits throughout the design and construction process. The department, in consultation with a LEED AP, shall prepare and submit a final as-built LEED Scorecard to the Department indicating all LEED credits that would be achieved if the project had been certified. Documentation of LEED credits is not required for these projects.
	(f)	Projects of 5,000 Square Feet or More. For Construction Projects with square footage of 5,000 square feet or more the following applies:
		(1)	Conceptual Design Phase. During the conceptual design phase, the sponsoring City department shall assemble a design team, which shall include a LEED AP assigned to be the LEED Project Administrator. The LEED Project Administrator shall prepare and submit a conceptual phase LEED Scorecard to the Department for review by the Task Force. The conceptual phase LEED Scorecard shall demonstrate a LEED Gold rating or higher, including all San Francisco-specific LEED credit requirements. The Task Force shall review and make recommendations on the conceptual LEED Scorecard within 35 days of submittal.
		(2)	Schematic Design, Design Development and Construction Document Phases. During the Schematic Design phase, the LEED Project Administrator shall register the construction project with the GBCI as a LEED registered project. At the conclusion of each design phase (Schematic Design, Design Development, and Construction Documents), the LEED Project Administrator shall submit an updated LEED Scorecard to the Department; the Scorecard shall demonstrate a LEED Gold rating or higher for the project, including all San Francisco-specific LEED credit requirements. These interim LEED Scorecards shall be available for review by the Task Force.
		(3)	Project Consultation. At the completion of construction, the LEED Project Administrator shall submit the final LEED documentation to the GBCI for certification. Upon receiving the LEED rating from the GBCI, the LEED Project Administrator shall submit the LEED ratings and the final LEED Scorecard to the Department for review by the Task Force.
	(g)	The USGBC updates the LEED rating system on a three-year cycle. The Director shall as necessary adopt by the regulation the current applicable versions of LEED pursuant to Section 703(b).
(Added as Sec. 707 by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; renumbered and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011)
(Former Sec. 705 added and previous Sec. 705 repealed by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; Ord. 103-10, File No. 090584, App. 5/21/2010; repealed by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 705.1.  RESERVED. 
(Added by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 103-10, File No. 090584, App. 5/21/2010; repealed by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011)
SEC. 705.2.  RESERVED. 
(Added by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 103-10, File No. 090584, App. 5/21/2010; repealed by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 705.3.  RESERVED. 
(Added by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 103-10, File No. 090584, App. 5/21/2010; renumbered as Sec. 710 and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 705.4.  RESERVED. 
(Added by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 103-10, File No. 090584, App. 5/21/2010; renumbered as Sec. 711 and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 705.5.  RESERVED. 
(Added by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 103-10, File No. 090584, App. 5/21/2010; renumbered as Sec. 707 and amended in its entirety by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 706.  SAN FRANCISCO-SPECIFIC LEED CREDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
	(a)	As part of the LEED Gold certification requirement for municipal construction projects, the projects must achieve the following LEED credits:
		(1)	Stormwater Management. The LEED Project Administrator shall submit documentation verifying that a construction project that is located outside the City and County of San Francisco achieves the LEED SS6.2 credit. Construction projects located within the City and County of San Francisco shall implement the applicable stormwater management controls adopted by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission (the "SFPUC"). All construction projects shall develop and implement construction activity pollution prevention and stormwater management controls adopted by the SFPUC, and achieve LEED prerequisite SSp1 or similar criteria adopted by the SFPUC, as applicable.
		(2)	Indoor Water Use Reduction. The LEED Project Administrator shall submit documentation verifying a minimum 30 percent reduction in the use of indoor potable water, as calculated to meet and achieve LEED credit WE3.2.
		(3)	Energy Performance. Using an Alternative Calculation Method (ACM) approved by the California Energy Commission, the LEED Project Administrator shall calculate the project's energy use, and compare it to the standard or "budget" building to achieve LEED credit EA1 by either:
			(A)	A 15 percent compliance margin over Title 24, Part 6, 2008 California Energy Standards; or,
			(B)	Document compliance with Title 24, Part 6, 2008 California Energy Standards, including submittal of all standard documentation, and additionally demonstrate that the project achieves a 15 percent or greater compliance margin over the ASHRAE 90.1 2007 energy cost baseline using the published LEED 2009 rules. Such analysis shall include all on-site building energy use, including exterior and security lighting, elevators, all process loads, and receptacle loads.
		(4)	Renewable Energy. The LEED Project Administrator shall confer with SFPUC on renewable energy opportunities for municipal construction projects, including photovoltaics, solar hot water and wind power. Space allocation and infrastructure for future renewable energy installations shall be included in municipal construction projects, as advised by SFPUC, including but not limited to structural capacity, wiring conduits, supply and return piping, and control wiring. The LEED Project Administrator shall submit documentation verifying that either:
			(A)	At least 1 percent of the building's energy costs are offset by on-site renewable energy generation, achieving LEED credit EA 2, including any combination of:  photovoltaic, solar thermal, wind, biofuel-based electrical systems, geothermal heating, geothermal electric, wave, tidal, or low impact hydroelectric systems, or as specified in Section 25741 of the California Public Resources Code; or,
			(B)	In addition to meeting LEED prerequisite EA 1 Energy Performance requirement, achieve an additional 10 percent compliance margin over Title 24, Part 6, 2008 California Energy Standards, for a total compliance margin of at least 25 percent.
		(5)	Commissioning. The LEED Project Administrator shall submit documentation verifying that the facility has been or will meet the criteria necessary to achieve LEED credit EA 3.0 (Enhanced Commissioning), in addition to LEED prerequisite EAp1 (Fundamental Commissioning of Building Energy Systems.)
		(6)	Enhanced Refrigerant Management. The LEED Project Administrator shall submit documentation verifying that the project will reduce ozone depletion, while minimizing direct contribution to climate change, achieving LEED credit EA 4.
		(7)	Construction Debris Management. The LEED Project Administrator shall submit documentation verifying the diversion of a minimum of 75 percent of the project's construction and demolition debris, as calculated to achieve LEED credit MR2.2. The project must also satisfy; the requirements of Section 708.
		(8)	IAQ Management: During Construction. The LEED Project Administrator shall submit documentation verifying that the sponsoring City department has prepared and implemented an Indoor Air Quality Management Plan that achieves LEED credit EQ 3.1. This requirement includes meeting or exceeding the recommended Control Measures of the Sheet Metal and Air Conditioning National Contractors Association (SMACNA) IAQ Guidelines for Occupied Buildings under Construction, 2nd Edition 2007, ANSI-SMACNA 008-2008 (Chapter 3).
		(9)	IAQ Management: Before Occupancy. The LEED Project Administrator shall submit documentation verifying that the sponsoring City department has prepared and implemented an Indoor Air Quality Management Plan that achieves LEED credit EQ 3.2.
		(10)	Low Emitting Materials. The LEED Project Administrator shall submit documentation verifying that the project is using low-emitting materials, subject to onsite verification, achieving LEED credits EQ 4.1. EQ 4.2. EQ 4.3. and EQ 4.4 wherever applicable:
			(A)	Adhesives, sealants and sealant primers shall achieve LEED credit EQ 4.1. including compliance with South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) Rule #1168, amended January 7, 2005.
			(B)	Interior paints and coatings applied on-site shall achieve LEED credit EQ 4.2. including:
				(i)	Architectural paints and coatings shall meet the VOC content limits of Green Seal Standard GS-11 (1st Edition, 1993).
				(ii)	Anti-corrosive and anti-rust paints applied to interior ferrous metal substrates shall not exceed the VOC content limit of Green Seal Standard GC-03 (2nd Edition, 1997) of 250 g/L.
				(iii)	Clear wood finishes, floor coatings, stains, primers, and shellacs applied to interior elements shall not exceed SCAQMD Rule 1113 (2004) VOC content limits.
			(C)	Flooring systems shall achieve LEED credit EQ 4.3 Option 1. including:
				(i)	Interior carpet shall meet the testing and product requirements of the Carpet and Rug Institute Green Label Plus program.
				(ii)	Interior carpet cushioning shall meet the requirements of the Carpet and Rug Institute Green Label program.
				(iii)	Hard surface flooring, including linoleum, laminate flooring, wood flooring, ceramic flooring, rubber flooring, and wall base shall be certified as compliant with the FloorScore standard, provided, however, that 100 percent reused or 100 percent post-consumer recycled hard surface flooring may be exempted from this LEED credit EQ 4.3 requirement. Projects exercising this exemption for hard surface flooring shall otherwise be eligible (or LEED credit EQ 4.3.
			(D)	Interior composite wood and agrifiber products shall achieve LEED credit EQ 4.4 by containing no added urea formaldehyde resins. Interior and exterior hardwood plywood, particleboard, and medium density fiberboard composite wood products shall additionally meet California Air Resources Board Air Toxics Control Measure for Composite Wood (17 CCR 93120 et seq.), by or before the dates specified in those sections.
			(E)	Project sponsors are encouraged to achieve LEED Pilot Credit 2: Persistent Bioaccumulative Toxic Chemicals Source Reduction: Dioxins and Halogenated Organic Compounds. This standard is consistent with Environment Code Chapter 5: Non-PVC Plastics.
		(11)	Indoor Chemical and Pollutant Source Control. The LEED Project Administrator shall submit documentation verifying that the project will minimize and control the entry of pollutants into buildings and later cross contamination of regularly occupied areas, achieving LEED credit EQ 5.
(Added by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011)
(Former Sec. 706 added and previous Sec. 706 repealed by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; renumbered as Sec. 708 and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011)  
SEC. 707.  COLLECTION, STORAGE AND LOADING OF RECYCLABLE AND COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS.
	(a)	All City departments shall ensure that adequate, accessible, and convenient recycling, composting and waste areas are provided within City-owned facilities and leaseholds, and that all contract documents for construction activities contain this requirement. In accordance with the City and County of San Francisco's solid-waste diversion goals, and the Mandatory Recycling and Composting Ordinance (Chapter 19 of the Environment Code), the departments shall provide sufficient space to allow the collection, storage and loading of 100 percent of the facility's recyclable, compostable and waste materials. That space must be sufficient to accommodate containers consistent with both current methods and goals of refuse collection, storage and loading, and with projected needs when full zero waste goals are met.
		(1)	The departments shall integrate all areas designated for the collection, storage and loading of recyclable, compostable and waste materials into the design and construction of the project. The departments shall ensure that areas for collection. storage and loading of recyclable and compostable materials are at least as convenient and usable as spaces provided for non-recyclable waste disposal, and located in the same areas whenever possible. When separate locations must be provided due to space constraints, the locations for collection, storage and loading of recyclable and compostable materials shall be at least as convenient as non-recyclable waste disposal locations.
		(2)	All areas designated for the collection, storage and loading of recyclable, compostable and waste materials shall allow for easy access to the containers by collection vehicles.
		(3)	Each interior space shall include adequate area designed and designated for collection and storage of recyclable, compostable and waste materials.
		(4)	Any chute system for solid-waste disposal shall be designed for equal convenience to all users to separate the three waste streams of trash, recycling and compostable materials.
	(b)	Surplus Furniture, Equipment, Computers and Supplies. The Virtual Warehouse Program facilitates the reuse, recycling, and disposal of surplus City materials. To the extent permitted by law, all surplus furniture, equipment, computers and supplies purchased with San Francisco City and County funds shall be turned in to the Virtual Warehouse. Before buying any new furniture, equipment or supplies. City employees shall check the Virtual Warehouse for available products that meet their needs.
	(c)	All City departments are required to recycle used fluorescent and other mercury containing lamps, batteries, and universal waste as defined by California Code of Regulations Section 66261.9.
(Added as Sec. 705.5 by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 103-10, File No. 090584, App. 5/21/2010; renumbered and amended in its entirety by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011
(Former Sec. 707 added and previous Sec. 707 repealed by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; renumbered as Sec. 705 and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 708.  CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS MANAGEMENT.
	(a)	This requirement applies to all Construction and/or Demolition Projects at City-owned Facilities and City leaseholds, regardless of size of the project, located within the nine counties surrounding the San Francisco Bay. All City departments shall ensure that each Construction and/or Demolition Project subject to this Section shall meet the following requirements:
		(1)	The Contractor shall employ the following hierarchy of highest and best use for handling Construction & Demolition ("C&D") debris as follows:
			(A)	Implement reduced material usage or reuse of materials before any recycling;
			(B)	Implement recycling of source-separated material before any recycling of mixed C&D debris material;
			(C)	Implement recycling of mixed C&D debris before all other forms of disposal.
		(2)	The contractor shall manage all project C&D debris materials to meet a minimum diversion rate of 75 percent. The Director may increase the minimum diversion rate by regulation under Section 703(b) based on the Director's assessment of infrastructure, markets and materials available to support the new rate.
		(3)	The contractor is prohibited from sending any C&D debris material directly to a landfill without submitting a request to and receiving approval from the Department. The request must demonstrate that all reuse and recycling options for the material have been evaluated and determined to be not possible. A request to send C&D material directly to landfill must demonstrate that beneficial reuse of the material is employed, if possible, before any material is used as alternative daily cover (ADC), and that material is used as landfill disposal only as a last resort if necessary, and shall include documentation such as a written statement by the landfill operator that the material will be used as designated.
			The contractor should submit any initial request for approval to send C&D debris  material directly to a landfill to the Department at the same time the contractor submits the Construction and Demolition and Debris Management Plan (CDDMP) to the City Representative, as provided in subsection (b)(2)(A)(ii), below. But if unforeseen circumstances affect the material during the project, the contractor may at that time submit an additional or amended request to the Department for its review and possible approval.
		(4)	The contractor is prohibited from sending any C&D debris materials directly to any facility that would incinerate such debris or otherwise process such debris using high temperature conversion technology, unless the debris is used as boiler fuel in BioMass Energy Generation, which will only be allowed after the contractor has submitted a request to and received approval from the Department. The contractor shall demonstrate in the request that all reuse and recycling options for the material have been evaluated and determined to be not possible.
		(5)	No solid waste or C&D debris material shall be buried or otherwise disposed of on the project site, unless engineered and processed on site for on-site reuse such as engineered backfill or landscaping; any such use shall be documented on all C&D debris material management plans and reports.
		(6)	In order for C&D debris to be considered hazardous, such as containing asbestos or lead, it shall be tested and determined to be hazardous by an independent professional, such as a Cal/OSHA Certified Asbestos Consultant. The waste determination and other verification shall be included with the C&D Debris Management Plan, together with a list of hazardous materials found at the project site and plans for proper disposal.
	(b)	Construction and Demolition Debris Management Plan. The contract between the City department and the contractor shall require the contractor responsible for construction and/or demolition debris material management to:
		(1)	Conduct a site assessment to estimate the types of materials that will be generated during the construction and/or demolition project, including packaging or shipping materials.
		(2)	Complete a plan as set forth below describing procedures for reuse, recycling and material management.
			(A)	Plan Requirements. The contract between the City department and the contractor shall require that:
				(i)	After award of the contract and prior to commencement of the demolition or construction project, the City Representative shall ensure that the contractor develops a plan for managing C&D debris material from the project to meet the requirements of this Section.
				(ii)	The contractor shall prepare, sign and submit a Construction and Demolition Debris Management Plan ("CDDMP") to the City Representative. The City Representative shall review the plan to ensure the contractor and the City are maximizing highest and best use of all C&D debris material and are meeting the requirements of this Section. The City Representative shall, if appropriate, approve and sign the CDDMP to ensure that the contractor abides by all requirements of this Section.
			(B)	The Director shall specify the form of the CDDMP by regulation pursuant to Section 703(b). The form shall include, but not be limited to:
				(i)	Contractor and project identification information; 
				(ii)	Procedures to be used for C&D debris management; 
				(iii)	A list of the materials generated from the project, their estimated weight by tons, and how they will be reused, recycled, or otherwise handled; and,
				(iv)	The names and locations of reuse and recycling facilities or sites, and companies that will transport the material.
		(3)	If the project involves a Full Demolition Permit from the code official having jurisdiction, or if the projected cost of the project exceeds $100,000, or as may be required by the Department, the City Representative shall send the approved CDDMP to the Department for optional review and approval.
	(c)	Summary of Diversion; Disposal. The contract between the City department and the contractor shall require that:
		(1)	With each application for progress payment, the contractor shall submit a signed Summary of Diversion to the City Representative showing C&D debris material diversion and disposal coinciding with the time period of the progress payment. This summary shall quantify all materials generated by the construction and/or demolition project, and how they were diverted from disposal through reuse or recycling, plus supporting documentation in the form of weight slips or other similar proof. The means used to reuse or recycle debris material must be consistent with the CDDMP for the project. No material may be taken to any landfill without prior approval pursuant to Section 708(a)(3), and landfill documentation provided with the Summary of Diversion must show that material was used as specified in the CDDMP. Failure to submit the Summary of Diversion and supporting documentation to the City Representative shall render the application for progress payment incomplete and delay progress payment. The Summary of Diversion must be submitted on a form specified by regulation of the Director under Section 703(b).
		(2)	The City Representative shall review and, if appropriate, sign as approved. the Summary of Diversion and supporting documentation to ensure that the contractor is adhering to the approved CDDMP, and that the reported diversion rate is correct. The City Representative shall send the Department a copy of the approved Summary of Diversion for any projects subject to subsection (b)(3).
	(d)	Final Diversion Report. The contract between the City department and the contractor shall require that:
		(1)	A Final Diversion Report signed by the contractor showing the weight of C&D debris material diverted for the entire construction and/or demolition project and the overall diversion rate achieved shall be prepared and submitted to the City Representative for approval prior to final payment. The Final Diversion Report will be submitted on a form established by regulation, pursuant to Section 703(b).
		(2)	The City Representative will send an approved copy of the Final Diversion Report to the Department. The City Representative shall retain all supporting documentation and make it available to the Department upon request. 
	(e)	Retention of Records. The City Representative shall retain all C&D Debris Management Plans, Summaries of Diversion, Final Diversion Reports and all supporting documentation after completion of the project for a period of time determined by the Department by regulation.
	(f)	Revenue. Revenues or other savings obtained from recycled or reused materials shall accrue to the City department or the contractor as negotiated between them and embodied in the contract.
	(g)	All factual representations required by this Section shall be signed under penalty of perjury.
	(h)	All forms and documentation required by this Section will be submitted electronically, if possible.
	(i)	Enforcement. The Director and his or her designee may administer all provisions of this section and enforce those provisions by any lawful means available for such purpose except as otherwise provided in this Chapter.
(Added as Sec. 706 by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; renumbered and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011)
(Former Sec. 708 added by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; renumbered as Sec. 713 and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 709.  WATER CONSERVATION RETROFIT REQUIREMENTS. 
	(a)	On or before January 1, 2017, the department responsible for any City-owned facility's operation and maintenance shall take all steps necessary to bring the facility into compliance with this Section.
	(b)	The department shall use San Francisco Public Utilities Commission ("SFPUC") guidelines to determine which of the following provisions applies.
	(c)	Water Conservation Requirements for Water Closets (Toilets) and Urinals.
		(1)	This subsection applies to all City-owned facilities.
		(2)	City leaseholds are subject to the all the requirements of the Commercial Water Conservation Ordinance of Chapter 13A of the San Francisco Building Code, including provisions requiring the replacement of non-compliant water closets and urinals on or before January 1, 2017.
		(3)	The responsible department shall ensure that all water closets in City-owned facilities with a rated flush volume exceeding 1.6 gallons per flush and all urinals with a rated flush volume exceeding 1.0 gallon per flush are replaced with high-efficiency water closets that use no more than 1.28 gallons per flush and high-efficiency urinals that use no more than 0.5 gallons per flush, respectively.
		(4)	The responsible department shall replace the bowl and flushometer valve together in all City-owned facilities to meet high-efficiency standards for flushometer type water closets and urinals. The department shall replace the bowl and tank together to meet high-efficiency standards for tank type water closets.
		(5)	The department shall be responsible for the costs of compliance and for ensuring that all applicable contract documents for the replacement of water closets and urinals contain the above requirement.
		(6)	Installation of water closets and urinals:
			(A)	City departments purchasing water closets and urinals may only purchase high-efficiency water closets and urinals listed by the General Manager of the SFPUC.
			(B)	City departments shall confer with the General Manger and incorporate technical assistance and water conservation audit findings in project plans.
		(7)	City departments shall comply with inspection findings determined to be necessary by the General Manager of the SFPUC to ensure that all fixtures have been properly installed for buildings subject to the requirements in subsection (c)(3) where four or more high-efficiency water closets or urinals are replaced.
		(8)	Should the General Manager of the SFPUC determine that water closets and urinals that are more water-efficient than those specified in the foregoing sections exist. City departments shall install fixtures identified on a SFPUC list of other water-efficient water closets and urinals that City departments may use pursuant to Section 703(b).
	(d)	Water Conservation Requirements for Shower Heads.
		(1)	This subsection applies to all City-owned facilities.
		(2)	City leaseholds are subject to the Commercial Water Conservation Ordinance of Chapter 13A of the San Francisco Building Code, including provisions requiring the replacement of non-compliant showerheads on or before January 1, 2017.
		(3)	The department responsible for any City-owned facility's operation and maintenance shall take all necessary steps to ensure that all showerheads in the facility having a maximum flow rate exceeding 2.5 gallons per minute are replaced with shower heads having a maximum flow rate, not to exceed 1.5 gallons per minute.
		(4)	The department shall be responsible for the costs of compliance and for ensuring that all applicable contract documents for the replacement of showerheads contain the above requirement.
		(5)	Should the General Manager of the SFPUC determine that shower heads that are more water efficient than those specified in the foregoing section exist, City departments shall install fixtures identified on a San Francisco Public Utilities Commission list of other water-efficient shower heads that City departments may use pursuant to Section 703(b).
	(e)	Water Conservation Requirements for Faucets and Faucet Aerators.
		(1)	This subsection applies to all City-owned facilities.
		(2)	City leaseholds are subject to requirements of the Commercial Water Conservation Ordinance of Chapter 13A of the San Francisco Building Code, including provisions requiring the replacement of non-compliant faucets and faucet aerators on or before January 1, 2017.
		(3)	The department responsible for any City-owned facility's operation and maintenance shall take all necessary steps to ensure that all faucets and faucet aerators in the facility with a maximum flow rate exceeding 2.2 gallons per minute are replaced with fixtures having a maximum flow rate not to exceed 0.5 gallons per minute per appropriate site conditions.
		(4)	The department shall be responsible for the costs of compliance and for ensuring that all applicable contract documents for the replacement of faucet or faucet aerators containing the above requirement.
		(5)	Should the General Manager of the SFPUC determine that faucet aerators that are more water efficient than those specified in the foregoing section exist, City departments shall install fixtures identified on a SFPUC list of other water-efficient faucets or faucet aerators that City departments may use pursuant to Section 703(b).
(Added by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011)
(Former Sec. 709 added by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; renumbered as Sec. 704 and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 710.  ENERGY EFFICIENT LIGHTING RETROFIT REQUIREMENTS.
	(a)	The requirements of this Section (or of California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part 6, or subsequent State standards, whichever are more stringent) shall apply in all cases except those in which a City department is not responsible for maintenance of light fixtures or exit signs.
	(b)	City departments shall be responsible for the cost of compliance and for ensuring that all applicable contract documents for the replacement and installation of light fixtures and exit signs contain the following requirements:
		(1)	Exit Signs. At the time of installation or replacement of broken or non-functional exit signs, all exit signs shall be replaced with light-emitting diode (L.E.D.)-type signs. Edge-lit compact fluorescent signs may be used as replacements for existing edge-lit incandescent exit signs.
		(2)	Fluorescent Fixtures.
			(A)	Definitions. For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply:
				(i)	"Luminaire" is an interior or exterior complete lighting unit, including internally or externally illuminated signs, consisting of the lamp and the parts designed to distribute the light, to protect the lamp, and to connect the lamp to the power supply, but not including illuminated utilization equipment or exit signs.
				(ii)	"Occupancy Sensor Control Device" is a device that automatically turns off a luminaire or series of luminaires no more than 30 minutes after it senses that the area is vacated.
				(iii)	"Utilization Equipment" is commercial, retail or industrial equipment, including but not limited to refrigeration equipment, fully enclosed retail display cases, vending machines, printing equipment or conveyors, which uses 4-foot or 8-foot fluorescent lamps ("tubes" or "bulbs") as an integrated part of such equipment. "Utilization Equipment" shall not include furniture or workstations.
				(iv)	"Compliance Deadline" is the final date by which all fixtures using 4-foot or 8-foot linear fluorescent lamps to provide illumination are to be in compliance.
			(B)	Compliance Deadline. The Compliance Deadline is December 31, 2011.
			(C)	Mercury Content. The mercury content of each 4-foot or 8-foot fluorescent lamp ("tube" or "bulb") installed in a luminaire after the Compliance Deadline shall not exceed 5 mg for each 4-foot fluorescent lamp, or 10 mg for each 8-foot fluorescent lamp.
			(D)	Energy Efficiency. The lamp and ballast system in each luminaire that utilizes one or more 4-foot or 8-foot linear fluorescent lamps to provide illumination in a City-Owned Facility must meet at least one of the following requirements:
				(i)	The lamp and ballast system emits 81 or more lumens per watt of electricity consumed;
				(ii)	The luminaire is controlled by an occupancy sensor control device that does not control an area in the building of more than 250 square feet;
				(iii)	The luminaire is fitted with a lighting efficiency measure approved by the Director as equivalent to the measures in subsections (i) or (ii) above;
				(iv)	The Director finds, based on the facts of the particular building and luminaire, that the energy savings from installing lighting efficiency measures meeting the requirements of this Section will be so insignificant over the life of the luminaire that the measure is not cost-effective; or,
				(v)	If the City department elects to meet the requirements of this Section with measures that require permits, such permits shall comply with all other applicable requirements of this Code and all other applicable state and local laws.
			(E)	Low Light Levels. The requirements of this Section shall not apply where the resulting luminaire will provide lighting levels at the work surface that are below the standards established by the Illuminating Engineering Society.
			(F)	Waivers. By September 30, 2011, the Director shall act on all pending requests for City Departments for a temporary waiver of the requirements of this Section. The criteria for waivers for this Section shall be described in rules issued by the Director. The Director shall submit to the Board of Supervisors a list of all departments receiving waivers, and shall identify budgetary or other barriers to compliance cited in those departments' waiver requests. Thereafter, the Director shall report on the effects of this Ordinance as part of the report required by Section 712.
		(3)	Exterior Light Fixtures. At the time of installation or replacement of broken or non-functional exterior light fixtures, a photocell or automatic timer shall be installed to prevent lights from operating during daylight hours. The existing switching capabilities shall be maintained. Upon written request by a City department the Director may grant an exemption from the requirement of this subsection where lighting is necessary during daylight hours.
	(c)	Other Technologies. Should the Director determine that light fixtures or exit signs that are more energy than those specified in the foregoing sections exist, the Director may, in consultation with the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, establish a list of other energy-efficient light fixtures and exit signs that City departments may use pursuant to Section 703(b).
(Added as Sec. 705.3 by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 103-10, File No. 090584, App. 5/21/2010; renumbered and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011)
(Former Sec. 710 added by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; renumbered as Sec. 712 and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 711.  INDOOR ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY.
	(a)	The requirements of this Section apply to all City-Owned Facilities and City leaseholds.
	(b)	The San Francisco Department of Public Health (''DPH"), in consultation with the Department, shall track Indoor Environmental Quality (IEQ) problems, including indoor air pollution, fumes, odors, humidity problems, and thermal and acoustical comfort issues, in City-owned buildings and City leaseholds through the Department of Public Works and the Real Estate Division's Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS).
	(c)	City Departments not using the CMMS may complete a voluntary annual survey of IEQ information.
	(d)	DPH shall compile tracking information from the CMMS and survey results into an annual analysis including commonalities among complaints and preventative techniques. The annual survey results and analysis will provide information with which to provide better solutions to IEQ problems and improve IEQ policy-making.
	(e)	DPH will coordinate research and interventions relating to the causes, effects, extent, prevention, and control of indoor pollution, and will disseminate outcomes to City departments.
	(f)	Pursuant to Section 703(a)(2), the Department, in consultation with DPH, will provide outreach and education programs for City Departments and design professionals on the importance of IAQ management in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of municipal buildings.
	(g)	Construction specifications and facility maintenance protocols for City-owned Facilities and City Leaseholds shall include the following:
		(1)	Implementation of moisture and mold management practices during the design, construction and maintenance of a building. City-owned Facilities and City Leaseholds shall have a system in place that provides prompt response and remediation for moisture infiltration, water damage and/or mold.
		(2)	For new construction, elimination of building materials manufactured with lead. Eliminated materials are established by regulation, pursuant to Section 703(b).
	(h)	Additional IEQ construction specifications and facility maintenance protocols for City-owned Facilities and City Leaseholds may be adopted by regulation pursuant to Section 703(b).
(Added as Sec. 705.4 by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; amended by Ord. 103-10, File No. 090584, App. 5/21/2010; renumbered and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011)
SEC. 712.  REPORT TO THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
	No later than July 1, 2014, the Director, in consultation with the Task Force and affected City departments and with input from members of the public who have asked to be informed by the Task Force or the Department, shall submit to the Board of Supervisors a report on the effects of this Chapter, including but not limited to the following:
		(1)	A report of the compliance of construction projects under the LEED rating system, including a report on waivers;
		(2)	A report of City departments' compliance with this Chapter;
		(3)	An assessment of whether this Chapter has achieved its stated goals; and
		(4)	Recommended changes, if any, to this Chapter.
(Added as Sec. 710 by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; renumbered and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
SEC. 713.  WAIVERS.
	(a)	Waivers from the requirements of this Chapter are available under the following circumstances:
		(1)	Emergency. A City department may grant itself a waiver from any requirement of this Chapter, except the requirements of Section 706(a)(4), when it is necessary to respond to an emergency which endangers public health or safety. In such case, the City department shall report to the Director on a form provided by the Director regarding the emergency that prevented compliance with this Chapter within five business days. City departments desiring an emergency waiver from the requirements of Section 706(a)(4) shall confer with the General Manager of the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission.
		(2)	Cost Prohibitive. A City department may request a waiver from the Director on a form provided by the Director if compliance with this Chapter is cost prohibitive. The Task Force shall provide the Director with a recommendation with respect to the waiver request. The Director may grant a waiver upon a finding that the requesting department has:
			(A)	Demonstrated which specific requirements are cost prohibitive as weighed against the potential economic, environmental and health benefits posed by a particular requirement; and
			(B)	If applicable for Section 705, developed a reasonable plan to maximize the number of LEED points attainable.
		(3)	Other. If, due to specific circumstances, compliance would defeat the intent of this Chapter or create an unreasonable burden on the construction project or City department, the City department may request a waiver from that requirement from the Director on a form provided by the Director. The Task Force shall provide the Director with a recommendation with respect to the waiver request. The Director may grant a waiver upon a finding that the requesting Department has:
			(A)	Documented the circumstances and burdens at issue; and
			(B)	If applicable for Section 705, developed a reasonable plan to maximize the number of LEED points attainable.
	(b)	The Director shall respond to a request for a waiver within 35 days.
	(c)	The Director may not waive the requirements of Sections 706(a)(4), 707, and 708, except in the case of emergencies as provided in subsection (a)(1). Departments seeking waivers of the requirements of Section 710(b) must follow the procedures provided for in Section 710(b)(2)(F). Granting of a waiver for any requirement of this Chapter does not waive any requirement of San Francisco Building Code Chapter 13C.
	(d)	The Director shall report to the Commission on the Environment regularly on waivers requested, granted and denied.
(Added as Sec. 708 by Ord. 88-04, File No. 030679, App. 5/27/2004; renumbered and amended by Ord. 204-11, File No. 110854, App. 10/11/2011, Eff. 11/10/2011) 
CHAPTER 8:
TROPICAL HARDWOOD AND VIRGIN REDWOOD BAN 
Sec. 800.Findings.Sec. 801.Definitions. Sec. 802.Contracts for Services. Sec. 803.Purchase or Other Acquisition of Commodities. Sec. 804.Contract Conditions. Sec. 805.Rules and Regulations. Sec. 806.Public Records. Sec. 807.Penalty.Sec. 808.Implementation Reports. Sec. 809.Severability. 
SEC. 800.  FINDINGS. 
	The Board of Supervisors hereby finds and declares that: 
		(1)	The world's equatorial tropical rainforests are the Earth's oldest and richest terrestrial ecological systems. The tropical rainforests are home to half of all the Earth's plant and animal species as well as thousands of indigenous tribal peoples. 
		(2)	The tropical rainforests are being destroyed worldwide, through commercial logging, burning and overcutting, at a rate of 50,000 acres per day, and this rate is accelerating. 
		(3)	Over 1/4 of all rainforest destruction results from logging of the rainforests to support the international trade in tropical hardwoods. 
		(4)	The United States is the third largest importer of tropical hardwoods. 
		(5)	Deforestation of the tropical rainforests has been scientifically linked to atmospheric imbalance and global warming, known as the Greenhouse Effect, caused by increased concentrations of CO2 in the global atmosphere. The effects of global warming include drought, floods, melting of the polar ice caps and changes in weather patterns worldwide. 
		(6)	Destruction of the rainforest at the current rate results in the endangerment and extinction of 30 species of plant and animal life each day and a consequent loss of genetic diversity invaluable to the production of medicines and food products. 
		(7)	Tropical rainforest deforestation causes the displacement of indigenous tribal peoples, many of whom have never before been contacted by the modern world. Displacement results in the death of these people and destruction of their culture, and loss of their intimate knowledge of commercial, medicinal and nutritional uses of rainforest species, which is often superior to that of any western-trained scientist. 
		(8)	It is critical to the survival of the planet that the United States and other industrialized nations take immediate measures to curb consumption of tropical hardwoods in order to halt the deforestation of the rainforests and to avert irreversible global environmental destruction. 
		(9)	Virgin redwood forests are an ancient and irreplaceable part of our State and national heritage that should be preserved for future generations. 
		(10)	Virgin redwood forests provide the only surviving habitat for rare species such as the marbled murrelet and the northern spotted owl. In addition, these forests protect the streams that provide the increasingly rare habitat of dwindling numbers of salmon and steelhead. 
		(11)	Only four percent of the virgin redwood forests originally found in the United States remain in existence, and these forests are under threat of destruction through commercial logging. 
		(12)	Prohibiting the City and County's use of tropical hardwoods, tropical hardwood wood products, virgin redwood and virgin redwood wood products will contribute to a necessary reduction in the demand for these products. Such a prohibition would not create shortages of building supplies for the City, inasmuch as many acceptable non-tropical hardwood equivalents and non-virgin redwood equivalents are available. 
		(13)	Many non-tropical hardwood equivalents are grown domestically in the United States. A prohibition on the City's use of tropical woods would therefore stimulate domestic business and create jobs for American timber workers. 
		(14)	Under this Article the City and County of San Francisco wishes to exercise its power to make economic decisions involving its own funds as a participant in the marketplace and to conduct its own business as a municipal corporation to ensure that purchases and expenditures of public monies are made in a manner consistent with sound environmental policies and practices. The City enacts this Article to prohibit the use, requisition or purchase, directly or indirectly, by any City or County department or agency, of any tropical hardwoods or tropical hardwood wood products as well as virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood products. 
		(15)	This Chapter applies the Precautionary Principle to the selection of lumber and wood products used in City operations in order to protect tropical and old-growth forest ecosystems. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12I.1; added by Ord. 391-90, App. 12/6/90; amended by Ord. 409-97, App. 10/31/97; Ord. 38-01, File No. 010010, App. 3/16/2001) 
SEC. 801.  DEFINITIONS. 
	As used in this Article, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated herein: 
	"City" or "City and County" shall mean the City and County of San Francisco, or any department, board, commission or agency thereof. 
	"City funds" shall mean all monies or other assets received and managed by, or which are otherwise under the control of, the Treasurer, and any notes, bonds, securities, certificates of indebtedness or other fiscal obligations issued by the City and County. 
	"Commodities" shall include, but not be limited to, goods, commodities, materials, supplies and equipment. 
	"Contract" shall mean an agreement for public works or improvements to be performed, or for goods or services to be purchased or grants to be provided, at the expense of the City and County or to be paid out of monies deposited in the treasury or out of trust monies under the control of or collected by the City and County. 
	"Contracting officer" shall mean that officer or employee of the City and County authorized under the Charter, the Administrative Code or the Municipal Code, to enter into a contract on behalf of the City and County. "Contracting officer" shall include the Mayor, each department head or general manager and other employees of the City and County authorized to enter into contracts on behalf of the City and County. 
	"Doing business in the City and County" shall mean entering into or seeking to enter into a contract with the City and County. 
	"Non-tropical hardwood equivalents" shall mean any and all hardwood other than virgin redwood that grows in any geographically temperate regions, as defined by the U.S. Forest Service, and is equivalent to tropical hardwood in density, texture, grain, stability or durability. Non-tropical hardwoods, the use or purchase of which shall be preferred under this Article, shall include, but not be limited to the following species: 
Scientific NameCommon NameFraxinus americanaAshTilia americanaBasswoodFagus grandifoliaBeechBetula papyriferaBirchJuglans cineraButternutPrunus serotinaCherryPopulus spp.CottonwoodTaxodium distichumCypressPseudotsuga menziesiiDouglas FirUlmus spp.ElmNyssa sylvaticaBlack GumLiquidambar styracifluaRed GumCeltis laevigataHackberryTsuga heterophyllaWest HemlockHicoria spp.HickoryAcer saccharumSugar MapleAcer spp.Soft MapleQuercus spp.Red OakQuercus spp.White OakHicoria spp.PecanPinus ponderosaPonderosa PinePinus spp.Yellow So. PineLiriodendron tulipiferaYellow PoplarPicea sitchensisSitka SprucePlatanus occidentalisSycamoreJuglas nigraBlack Walnut
	"Non-virgin redwood equivalents" shall mean any and all wood or wood product (including, but not limited to, wood from the species scientifically classified as "sequoia sempervirens") that is not a tropical hardwood or a tropical hardwood wood product and is equivalent to virgin redwood in density, texture, grain, stability or durability. 
	"Purchaser" shall mean the Purchaser of the City and County or any authorized representative of that official. 
	"Tropical hardwood" shall mean any and all hardwood, scientifically classified as angiosperme, that grows in any tropical moist forest. Tropical hardwoods, the use or purchase of which shall be governed by this Article, shall include, but not be limited to, the following species: 
Scientific NameCommon NameVouacapoua americanaAcapuPericopsis elataAfrormosiaShorea almonAlmonPeltogyne spp.AmaranthGuibourtia ehieAmazaqueAningeria spp.AningeriaDipterocarpus grandiflorusApitongOchrama lagopusBalsaVirola spp.BanakAnisoptera thuriferaBella RosaGuibourtia arnoldianaBengeDetarium SenegaleseBoireGuibourtia demeusilBubingaPrioria copaiferaCativoAntiaris africanaChenchenDalbergia retusaConcoboloCordia spp.CordiaDiospyros spp.EbonyAucoumea klaineanalGaboonChlorophora excelsaIrokoAcacia koaKoaPterygota macrocarpaKotoShorea negrosensisRed LauanPentacme contortaWhite LauanShorea polyspermaTanguileTerminalia superbaLimbaAniba duckeiLouroKhaya ivorensisAfrican MahoganySwietenia macrophyllaAmerican MahoganyTieghemella heckeliiMakoreDistemonanthus benthamianusMovinguiPterocarpus soyauxiiAfrican PaduakPterocarpus angolensisAngola PaduakAspidosperma spp.PerobaPeltogyne spp.PurpleheartGonystylus spp.RaminDalbergia spp.RosewoodEntandrophragma cylindricumSapeleShorea philippinensisSonoraTectona grandisTeakLovoa trichilioidesTigerwoodMilletia laurentiiWengeMicroberlinia brazzavillensisZebrawood
	"Tropical rainforests" shall mean any and all forests classified by the scientific term "tropical moist forests," the classification determined by the equatorial region of the forest and average rainfall. 
	"Tropical hardwood wood products" shall refer to any wood products which are composed, in whole or in part, of tropical hardwood. 
	"Virgin redwood wood products" shall refer to any wood products which are composed, in whole or in part, of virgin redwood. 
	"Virgin redwood" shall mean wood from the species scientifically classified as "sequoia sempervirens" including but not limited to wood that is graded "clear heart" or "clear all heart" (or any successor or equivalent terms) under lumber industry grading standards, unless such wood is either: 
	(a)	Reclaimed or recycled; or 
	(b)	Certified as sustainably harvested redwood by a certification organization that bases its standards on the principles and criteria of the United States Forest Stewardship Council. "Wood products" shall refer to any wood products, wholesale or retail, in any form, including but not limited to veneer, plywood, furniture, cabinets, paneling, mouldings, doorskins, joinery, or sawnwood. As used herein, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated herein: 
		(1)	"Doorskin" shall mean a thin sheet of wood which is glued onto the frame of a door to form the face of the door. 
		(2)	"Moulding" shall refer to decorative wood used around window and doorframes, ceilings, and corners. 
		(3)	"Paneling" shall mean any thin sheet or sheets of attractive wood, intended to be used as wall covering, including any sheet consisting of a veneer glued onto some backing material. 
		(4)	"Particle board" shall mean any wood sheet or board created by compressing wood chips and particles from logs, trees or industrial residue. 
		(5)	"Plywood" shall mean any wood sheet created by gluing together thinner sheets (veneers) of any species. 
		(6)	"Sawnwood" shall mean lumber or any form of wood which is sawn or chipped lengthwise in either a rough or smooth cut. 
		(7)	"Veneer" shall mean a very thin slice of wood, between 1/16 inch to 1/125 inch in width, used in plywood, paneling, furniture exterior, and doorskins. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12I.2; added by Ord. 391-90, App. 12/6/90; amended by Ord. 278-96, App. 7/3/96; Ord. 409-97, App. 10/31/97; Ord. 38-01, File No. 010010, App. 3/16/2001) 
SEC. 802.  CONTRACTS FOR SERVICES. 
	(a)	Prohibited Transactions. 
		(1)	The City and County shall not enter into or renew any contract with any person or entity for the provision of services, the performance of which calls for the use of any tropical hardwood, tropical hardwood wood product, virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood product. 
		(2)	In the case of any bid proposal or solicitation, request for bid or proposal or contract for the construction of any public work, building maintenance or improvement for or on behalf of the City and County, the City shall not require or permit the use of any tropical hardwood, tropical hardwood wood product, virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood product. 
		(3)	Every bid proposal, solicitation, request for bid or proposal and contract for the construction of any public work, building maintenance or improvement shall contain a statement that any bid, proposal or other response to a solicitation for bid or proposal which proposes or calls for the use of any tropical hardwood, tropical hardwood wood product, virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood product in performance of the contract shall be deemed nonresponsive. 
	(b)	Nonapplicability; Findings; Alternates. 
		(1)	With respect to tropical hardwood and tropical hardwood wood products, Section 802 shall not apply to bid packages advertised and made available to the public or any competitive and sealed bids received by the City entered into prior to December 6, 1990. With respect to virgin redwood and virgin redwood wood products, Section 802 shall not apply to bid packages advertised and made available to the public or any competitive and sealed bids received by the City entered into prior to September 1, 1997. 
		(2)	With respect to tropical hardwood and tropical hardwood wood products, Section 802 shall not apply to any amendment, modification or renewal of a contract, which contract was entered into prior to December 6, 1990, where such application would delay timely completion of a project or involve an increase in the total monies to be paid by the City and County under that contract. With respect to virgin redwood and virgin redwood wood products, Section 802 shall not apply to any amendment, modification or renewal of a contract, which contract was entered into prior to September 1, 1997, where such application would delay timely completion of a project or involve an increase in the total monies to be paid by the City and County under that contract. 
		(3)	The provisions of Section 802 shall not apply where the contracting officer finds that: 
			(A)	No person or entity doing business in the City and County is capable of performing the contract using acceptable non-tropical hardwood equivalents or non-virgin redwood equivalents, as the case may be, in each case as defined under Section 801; or 
			(B)	The inclusion or application of such provisions will violate or be inconsistent with the terms or conditions of a grant, subvention or contract with an agency of the State of California or the United States or the instructions of an authorized representative of any such agency with respect to any such grant, subvention or contract; 
			(C)	The use of tropical hardwoods, tropical hardwood wood products, virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood products, as the case may be, is deemed necessary for purposes of historical restoration and there exists no available acceptable non-tropical wood equivalent or non-virgin redwood equivalent, as the case may be. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12I.3; added by Ord. 391-90, App. 12/6/90; amended by Ord. 409-97, App. 10/31/97; Ord. 38-01, File No. 010010, App. 3/16/2001) 
SEC. 803.  PURCHASE OR OTHER ACQUISITION OF COMMODITIES. 
	(a)	Prohibited Transactions. 
		(1)	The City and County shall not purchase or obtain for any purpose any tropical hardwoods, tropical hardwood wood products, virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood products, wholesale or retail, in any form. 
	(b)	Exceptions. This Section 803 shall not apply to: 
		(1)	With respect to tropical hardwood and tropical hardwood wood products, any contract entered into prior to December 6, 1990; or 
		(2)	With respect to virgin redwood and virgin redwood wood products, any contract entered into prior to September 1, 1997; or 
		(3)	The purchase of any tropical hardwood or tropical hardwood product for which there is no acceptable non-tropical hardwood equivalent; or 
		(4)	The purchase of any virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood product for which there is no acceptable non-virgin redwood equivalent; or 
		(5)	Where the contracting officer finds that no person or entity doing business in the City and County is capable of providing acceptable non-tropical hardwood equivalents or non-virgin redwood equivalents, as the case may be, sufficient to meet the City's contract requirements; or 
		(6)	Where the inclusion or application of such provisions will violate or be inconsistent with the terms or conditions of a grant, subvention or contract with an agency of the State of California or the United States or the instructions of an authorized representative of any such agency with respect to any such grant, subvention or contract. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12I.4; added by Ord. 391-90, App. 12/6/90; amended by Ord. 409-97, App. 10/31/97; Ord. 38-01, File No. 010010, App. 3/16/2001) 
SEC. 804.  CONTRACT CONDITIONS. 
	(a)	All contracts involving wood or wood products entered into by any department of the City and County shall include as a material condition to that contract the following paragraph in the contract: "Except as expressly permitted by the application of Sections 802(b) and 803(b) of the San Francisco Environment Code, Contractor shall not provide any items to the City in performance of this contract which are tropical hardwoods, tropical hardwood wood products, virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood products." 
	(b)	Every contract shall also contain a statement urging companies not to import, purchase, obtain, or use for any purpose, any tropical hardwood, tropical hardwood wood product, virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood product. This Subsection (b) shall not apply to contracts with public entities for the provision of water or power and related services. 
(Added by Ord. 17103, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12I.5; added by Ord. 391-90, App. 12/6/90; amended by Ord. 304-92, App. 9/29/92; Ord. 409-97, App. 10/31/97; Ord. 38-01, File No. 010010, App. 3/16/2001) 
SEC. 805.  RULES AND REGULATIONS. 
	(a)	The Purchaser shall promulgate any rules and regulations necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes and requirements of this ordinance. Each department, board and commission of the City and County shall cooperate with, and provide in writing to, the Purchaser, all information necessary for the Purchaser to promulgate such rules and regulations. 
	(b)	All contracts shall incorporate this Article by reference whenever applicable and shall provide that the failure of any bidder or contractor to comply with any of its requirements shall be deemed a material breach of contract. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12I.6; added by Ord. 391-90, App. 12/6/90; amended by Ord. 409-97, App. 10/31/97; Ord. 38-01, File No. 010010, App. 3/16/2001) 
SEC. 806.  PUBLIC RECORDS. 
	Any and all documents and reports prepared pursuant to the requirements of this ordinance shall be made available for public inspection upon proper request, except those prepared for purposes of litigation. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12I.7; added by Ord. 391-90, App. 12/6/90; amended by Ord. 38-01, File No. 010010, App. 3/16/2001) 
SEC. 807.  PENALTY. 
	(a)	Whenever any department of the City and County discovers, after an investigation by the contracting officer and the City Attorney, that a person or entity being considered for a contract or under contract with the City and County has, in connection with the bidding, execution or performance of any City contract 
		(1)	falsely represented to the City and County the nature or character of the wood products offered, used or supplied under the contract, or 
		(2)	provided the City with tropical hardwood, tropical hardwood wood products, virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood products in violation of this ordinance, the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this ordinance, or contract provisions pertaining to the prohibition against the use or purchase of tropical hardwood, tropical hardwood wood products, virgin redwood or virgin redwood wood products, the contracting officer shall have the authority to impose such sanctions or take such other actions as are designed to ensure compliance with the provisions of this ordinance which shall include, but are not limited to: 
		(1)	Refusal to certify the award of a contract; 
		(2)	Suspension of a contract; 
		(3)	Ordering the withholding of funds due the contractor under any contract with the City and County; 
		(4)	Ordering the revision of a contract based upon a material breach of contract provisions or pertaining to representations made in bidding, execution or performance of the contract; 
		(5)	Disqualification of a bidder or contractor from eligibility for providing commodities or services to the City and County for a period not to exceed five years, with a right to review and reconsideration by the contracting City office or department after two years upon a showing of corrective action indicating violations are not likely to reoccur. 
	(b)	All contracts shall provide that in the event any bidder or contractor fails to comply in good faith with any of the provisions of this Article the bidder or contractor shall be liable for liquidated damages in an amount equal to the bidder's or contractor's net profit under the contract, or five percent of the total amount of the contract dollars whichever is greatest. All contracts shall also contain a provision whereby the bidder or contractor acknowledges and agrees that the liquidated damages assessed shall be payable to the City and County upon demand and may be set off against any monies due to the bidder or contractor from any contract with the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12I.8; added by Ord. 391-90, App. 12/6/90; amended by Ord. 409-97, App. 10/31/97; Ord. 38-01, File No. 010010, App. 3/16/2001) 
SEC. 808.  IMPLEMENTATION REPORTS. 
	The Purchaser shall provide written reports on the implementation of this ordinance to the Board of Supervisors (1) at the first Board of Supervisors meeting held six months after this Article has taken effect; and (2) semiannually thereafter. Each department, board and commission of the City and County shall cooperate with, and provide in writing to, the Purchaser, whichever is appropriate, all information necessary for the Purchaser to prepare such reports. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12I.10; added by Ord. 391-90, App. 12/6/90; amended by Ord. 38-01, File No. 010010, App. 3/16/2001) 
SEC. 809.  SEVERABILITY. 
	If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or portion of this Article is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court or federal or State agency of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12I.11; added by Ord. 391-90, App. 12/6/90; amended by Ord. 38-01, File No. 010010, App. 3/16/2001) 
CHAPTER 9:
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS TARGETS AND DEPARTMENTAL ACTION PLANS 
Sec. 900.Findings and Purpose. Sec. 901.Definitions. Sec. 902.Greenhouse Gas Emissions Limit. Sec. 903.Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Plan. Sec. 904.Mandatory Annual Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting. Sec. 905.Enforcement. Sec. 906.Market-Based Compliance Mechanisms. Sec. 907.Local Energy Generation. Sec. 908.Miscellaneous. 
SEC. 900.  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE. 
	The Board of Supervisors finds that: 
	(a)	In 2002, the Board of Supervisors adopted Resolution 158-02 that called for the City to develop plans to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 20 percent below 1990 levels by the year 2012. 
	(b)	In 2004, the Department of the Environment and the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission issued "The Climate Action Plan For San Francisco," which included an accounting of greenhouse gas emissions associated with City activities, an accounting of greenhouse gas emissions within the City and County of San Francisco but not associated with City operations, and emission reduction recommendations for transportation, energy efficiency, renewable energy and solid waste management sectors. 
	(c)	City Departments, under the leadership of the Department of the Environment and on their own initiative, are engaged in various undertakings to implement the recommendations in "The Climate Action Plan," and are making steady progress in certain areas toward the 2012 goal. 
	(d)	In 2005, Governor Schwarzenegger issued Executive Order S-3-05 which established Statewide greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets for California as follows: by 2010, reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 2000 levels; by 2020, reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels, and by 2050 reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 80 percent below 1990 levels. 
	(e)	In 2006, California enacted AB 32, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006. (CA Health and Safety Code Section 38.500 et seq.) which requires the California Air Resources Board to determine the statewide greenhouse gas emissions level in 1990, set that 1990 level as the statewide greenhouse gas emissions level to be achieved by 2020, and to adopt and implement statewide plans, protocols, rules and regulations to achieve and exceed the 2020 goals. 
	(f)	It is the intent of the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors to protect the health and welfare in a manner that compliments state and federal efforts to improve air quality by exercising a leadership role in mandating local actions to reduce global warming, and, in particular, to call upon City departments and the private sector to integrate emission reduction measures into their standard operating procedures in order that the City meets and exceeds the greenhouse gases emissions established in this Ordinance. 
(Added by Ord. 81-08, File No. 071294, App. 5/13/2008) 
SEC. 901.  DEFINITIONS. 
	(a)	"CARB" means the California Air Resources Board. 
	(b)	"Carbon Dioxide Equivalent" means the amount of carbon dioxide by weight that would produce the same global warming impact as a given weight of another greenhouse gas, based on the best available science, as determined by the Department of the Environment. 
	(c)	"Climate Action Plan" means the "The Climate Action Plan For San Francisco" issued in 2004 by the Department of the Environment and the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission. 
	(d)	"GHG emission reduction measure" means programs, measures, standards, and alternative compliance mechanisms authorized pursuant to Section 903, applicable to sources or categories of sources that are designed to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. 
	(e)	"GHG", Greenhouse gas" or "greenhouse gases" means and includes all of the following gases: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, and sulfur hexafluoride. 
	(f)	"San Francisco Greenhouse Gas Emissions limit" means the combined level of greenhouse gas emissions, expressed in tons of carbon dioxide equivalents, from all sources within the geographic limit of the City and County of San Francisco, whether or not such source is subject to regulation by local law. 
	(g)	"SFPUC" mean the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission. 
(Added by Ord. 81-08, File No. 071294, App. 5/13/2008) 
SEC. 902.  GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS LIMIT. 
	(a)	The following San Francisco greenhouse gas emissions limits are hereby established: 
		(i)	By 2008, determine 1990 City greenhouse gas emissions as provided in Section 902(c) below; 
		(ii)	By 2017, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent below 1990 levels; 
		(iii)	By 2025, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent below 1990 levels; and 
		(iv)	By 2050, reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 80 percent below 1990 levels. These targets shall remain in effect unless otherwise amended or repealed. 
	(b)	All City departments shall consider the effect of all decisions and activities within their jurisdiction on green house gas emissions and undertake their responsibilities to the end that the City achieves the greenhouse gas emissions limits set forth in this Ordinance. 
	(c)	No later than January 1, 2009, the Commission on the Environment, shall, after one or more public hearings, determine what the greenhouse gas emissions level within the City and County of San Francisco for City and private enterprise activities was in 1990. Such determination shall be the baseline level for determining the greenhouse gas emission limits to be achieved in 2017 and 2050, under subsection (a), above. In determining the 1990 level, the Department of the Environment shall take into consideration the inventory identified in the Climate Action Plan, the methodology adopted by the State Air Board under AB 32, and the best available scientific, technological, and economic information and shall make reasonable efforts, where appropriate, to promote consistency between its methodology and the methodology used by other international, federal and state greenhouse gas emission measurement and reporting programs. 
	(d)	The Department of the Environment is urged to promulgate interim greenhouse gas emissions goals to facilitate the City's achievement of the 2017 and 2050 greenhouse gas emissions limits set forth in Subsection (a), above, provided, however, that such interim goals shall be for purposes of measuring the City's progress toward achieving the targets set forth in subsection (a), above and shall not be independently binding. 
	(e)	The Department of the Environment shall, where appropriate and to the maximum extent feasible, work with other local, State And federal governmental agencies, including but not limited to the CARB, and non-profit entities to develop uniform standards and protocols for measuring, verifying and reporting on greenhouse gas emissions. 
(Added by Ord. 81-08, File No. 071294, App. 5/13/2008) 
SEC. 903.  GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION PLAN. 
	(a)	Consistent with its Charter duty regularly to produce an assessment of San Francisco's environmental condition, the Department of the Environment shall coordinate all departmental action plans, reports of actions taken, and their effectiveness in achieving the greenhouse gas emissions limits provided herein. 
	(b)	The Department of the Environment, in cooperation with the SFPUC, shall manage the City's monitoring and reporting obligations imposed, from time to time, by Federal or State law, including but not limited to requirements imposed by the CARB under AB32. 
	(c)	On or before January 30, 2009, all City departments shall assess GHG emissions associated with their activities and submit, in a format specified by the Department of the Environment, a written action plan that identifies and makes recommendations on GHG emission reduction measures applicable to 
		(i)	operations of the department and other City greenhouse gas emission sources within its jurisdiction, and 
		(ii)	private sector greenhouse gas emission sources regulated by the department. Such Plan shall identify the potential costs of identified measures and the estimated potential benefits of elements in the plan for reducing greenhouse gases, and may also identify other economic and non-economic impacts to the City's economy and environment 
	(d)	In addition to the requirement set forth in subsection (d), above, the following requirements apply to the following City departments: 
		(i)	The San Francisco Planning Department shall: 
			(A)	Review the City's General Plan, including but not limited to the environmental protection, air quality, urban design and transportation elements, for consistency with this Ordinance and, as appropriate, urge the Planning Commission to recommend to the Board of Supervisors amendments to the General Plan to add the greenhouse gas emissions limits in this Ordinance and policies to achieve those targets; 
			(B)	Include consideration of a project's impact on the San Francisco greenhouse gas emissions limits in this Ordinance as part of its review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA); and 
			(C)	In consultation with the Executive Director of the Municipal Transportation Agency, Department of Public Health, San Francisco County Transportation Authority, the Department of the Environment and other affected City departments, review City transit, pedestrian, bicycle, parking, and transportation demand management programs and requirements within their jurisdiction and, as appropriate, recommend legislation to the Board of Supervisors that will enhance the City's "transit first" policy, encourage a shift to sustainable transportation modes for trips to, from, and within the City, and reduce transportation-related emissions to achieve City greenhouse gas emissions targets set forth in this Ordinance. 
		(ii)	The San Francisco Department of Building Inspection shall review and, as appropriate, recommend to the Board of Supervisors amendments to the Building Code or other local laws (A) to improve energy efficiency in new construction and in repairs and alterations to existing buildings, (B) to optimize energy efficiency of HVAC, lighting, and other building systems, and (C) to mandate retrofitting of buildings at time of sale. 
		(iii)	The Department of Public Works shall: 
			(A)	Review maintenance and construction standards, programs and requirements within its jurisdiction and, as appropriate, develop orders, regulations, or amendments to the Department's Standard Plans and Specifications to address the policies of this Ordinance and/or recommend legislation to the Board of Supervisors, including amendments to the Public Works Code or other City codes or ordinances, to achieve the greenhouse gas emissions limits set forth in this Ordinance; and 
			(B)	in consultation with the SFPUC and other affected City Departments, review, and as appropriate recommend changes to street and other public lighting standards to enhance energy efficiency and thereby reduce City greenhouse gas emissions. 
		(iv)	The City Administrator shall: 
			(A)	review, in consultation with the SFPUC, the energy efficiency of City buildings and city occupied leaseholds, and, as necessary, recommend cost effective steps to increase their efficiency, and 
			(B)	in collaboration with the Department of the Environment and other affected City departments, review, and, as appropriate, recommend amendments to City procurement laws and practices, including but not limited to Chapter 2 of this Code (Environmentally Preferable Purchasing Ordinance), to include the impact of City procurement decisions on greenhouse gas emissions. 
(Added by Ord. 81-08, File No. 071294, App. 5/13/2008) 
SEC. 904.  MANDATORY ANNUAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING. 
	(a)	Beginning at the close of fiscal year 2008-2009, no later than 90 days after the close of each fiscal year, all City departments shall submit, in a format specified by the Department of the Environment, a written update of the plans, status of any recommendation required by Section 903, and the GHG emission reductions from actions taken to the Department of the Environment. Such updates shall, to the extent feasible, provide information to enable the Department of the Environment to calculate the City's progress toward meeting the greenhouse gas emissions limits set forth in this Ordinance. 
	(b)	Beginning in January 2010, and annually thereafter, and based on the written reports required in Section 904(a) and such other reliable data as the Department of the Environment shall compile, the Department of the Environment shall report to the Board of Supervisors on the City's progress toward achieving the San Francisco greenhouse gas emissions limits of this Ordinance. Such annual report shall be consistent with the methodology established by the Department of the Environment under Section 903(c), except that the Department of the Environment may revise such methodology to conform to recognized protocols. 
(Added by Ord. 81-08, File No. 071294, App. 5/13/2008) 
SEC. 905.  ENFORCEMENT. 
	The Department of the Environment shall report any non-compliance with the reporting requirements of this Ordinance to the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors. 
(Added by Ord. 81-08, File No. 071294, App. 5/13/2008) 
SEC. 906.  MARKET-BASED COMPLIANCE MECHANISMS. 
	(a)	The Department of the Environment, utilizing the expertise of relevant City Departments and Agencies, shall research and, as appropriate, recommend legislation to the Board of Supervisors, concerning whether and how to develop or utilize available market-based compliance mechanisms, such as greenhouse gas emissions exchanges, banking, credits, and other similar transactions governed by rules and protocols established by the City, CARB or other recognized governmental or non-profit entity as credit toward City greenhouse gas emission reductions. 
	(b)	The Department of the Environment shall provide technical assistance, and coordinate City applications for, any approved market-based mechanisms that the City intends to use in furtherance of achieving the San Francisco greenhouse gas emissions limit. 
(Added by Ord. 81-08, File No. 071294, App. 5/13/2008) 
SEC. 907.  LOCAL ENERGY GENERATION. 
	The Board of Supervisors urges the SFPUC to develop and to implement an energy action plan that includes at least the following: 
	(a)	In coordination with the Department of the Environment, develop a plan to achieve the goal of San Francisco becoming fossil fuel free by 2030; 
	(b)	In coordination with the Department of the Environment, setting annual goals for generating electricity locally through renewable generation; and 
	(c)	Integrating the greenhouse gas emissions targets and policies of this Ordinance into the Sewer Master Plan. 
(Added by Ord. 81-08, File No. 071294, App. 5/13/2008)
SEC. 908.  MISCELLANEOUS. 
	(a)	Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the Ordinance. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed this Ordinance and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard to whether any portion of this Ordinance would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional. 
	(b)	No Conflict With Federal Or State Law. Nothing in this Ordinance shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any requirement, power or duty in conflict with any Federal or State law. Any and all greenhouse gas reduction activities adopted and implemented under this Ordinance are intended to be complementary and nonduplicative of measures required or to be adopted by any State or Federal agency under State or Federal law. Nothing in this Ordinance shall relieve any person, entity, including any City Department or City Official of compliance with other applicable Federal, State, or local laws or regulations, including Federal or State air and water quality requirements, and other requirements for protecting public health or the environment. 
	(c)	Undertaking For The General Welfare. In undertaking the implementation of this Ordinance, the City is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officer and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. 
(Added by Ord. 81-08, File No. 071294, App. 5/13/2008) 
CHAPTER 10:
TRANSPORTATION OF AGGREGATE MATERIALS 
Sec. 1000.Findings. Sec. 1001.Definitions. Sec. 1002.Covering of Aggregate Materials Required. Sec. 1003.Contract Requirements. Sec. 1004.Enforcement. Sec. 1005.Severability. 
SEC. 1000.  FINDINGS. 
	The Board of Supervisors finds and declares the following: 
	(a)	Particulate matter and other air-borne materials have been shown to have an adverse impact on public health, including asthma and other respiratory illnesses; and 
	(b)	Particulate matter and other air-borne materials may have negative impacts on the environment, particularly in ecologically sensitive areas; and, 
	(c)	Vehicles transporting uncovered dirt and other aggregate materials may facilitate the release of particulate matter into the environment; 
	(d)	Vehicles that transport dirt and other aggregate materials often drive through residential and ecologically sensitive areas; and, 
	(e)	Covering loads of aggregate material during transit within the City would prevent the entrainment of particulate matter into the environment; and, 
	(f)	Under this Chapter, the City and County of San Francisco wishes to exercise its power to make economic decisions involving its own funds as a participant in the marketplace and to conduct its own business as a municipal corporation to ensure that its activities do not increase the amount of particulate matter present in residential and other ecologically sensitive areas. The City enacts this Chapter to require City Departments and City contractors to cover their loads when transporting dirt and other aggregate materials in the City. 
	(g)	This Chapter applies the Precautionary Principle to the determination of best management practices when transporting aggregate materials for City construction projects to minimize negative impacts on air quality and human health. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12T.1; added by Ord. 3-02, File No. 011796, App. 1/18/2002) 
SEC. 1001.  DEFINITIONS. 
	For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply to the terms used herein. 
	(a)	"Aggregate Material" shall mean rock fragments, pebbles, sand, dirt, gravel, cobbles, crushed base, asphalt, and other similar materials. 
	(b)	"City" or "City and County" shall mean the City and County of San Francisco, or any department, board, commission or agency thereof. 
	(c)	"Contract" shall mean a written agreement for services to be paid for or administered by the City that might require the transportation of aggregate materials in the City. 
	(d)	"Contract awarding authority" shall mean the City officer, department, commission, employee or board authorized to enter into contracts on behalf of the City. 
	(e)	"Contractor" shall mean any person who enters into a contract with the City. 
	(f)	"Person" shall mean a natural person, a firm, joint stock company, business concern, association, partnership or corporation, its or their successors or assigns, or agents. 
	(g)	"Subcontract" shall mean any agreement that is subordinate to the contract that involves the transportation of aggregate materials. 
	(h)	"Subcontractor" shall mean any Person who enters into a subcontract with the contractor. 
	(i)	"Vehicle" shall have the same meaning as that found in Section 670 of the California Code. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12T.2; added by Ord. 3-02, File No. 011796, App. 1/18/2002) 
SEC. 1002.  COVERING OF AGGREGATE MATERIALS REQUIRED. 
	Any City Department, Contractor, or Subcontractor operating any vehicle hauling aggregate material shall cover the load so as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting, leaking, blowing, spilling, or otherwise escaping from the vehicle, regardless of the degree to which the vehicle is loaded. Aggregate materials shall only be carried in the cargo area of the vehicle. The cargo area shall not contain any holes, cracks, or openings through which the aggregate material may escape. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12T.3; added by Ord. 3-02, File No. 011796, App. 1/18/2002) 
SEC. 1003.  CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS. 
	As of the effective date of this Chapter, when the City enters into a contract or extends the terms of an existing contract, the contract shall obligate the Contractor to the following terms and conditions: 
	(a)	Contractor agrees that it shall comply with the requirements of Section 1002 of this Chapter and agrees to include the requirements of Section 1002 in any subcontract which may involve the transportation of aggregate material. 
	(b)	Contractors' failure to comply with the foregoing requirement shall constitute a material breach of the contract. 
	(c)	In the event that Contractor or its Subcontractor is found to be in breach of this provision, Contractor shall be liable for liquidated damages in an amount equal to its net profit under the contract, or five percent of the total amount of the contract, whichever is greater. Such liquidated damages shall be payable upon demand, and may be withheld from monies owed to Contractor under the contract. 
	(d)	Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit any other remedies available at law to the City. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12T.4; added by Ord. 3-02, File No. 011796, App. 1/18/2002) 
SEC. 1004.  ENFORCEMENT. 
	Whenever the contract awarding authority discovers, after an investigation, that a contractor and/or subcontractor has violated the requirements of Sections 1002 and/or 1003 of this Chapter, the contracting awarding authority or her or his designee shall have the authority to impose such sanctions or take such other actions as are designed to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Chapter which shall include, but are not limited to: 
	(a)	Termination or suspension of the contract; 
	(b)	Ordering the withholding of funds due the contractor under any contract with the City and County; 
	(c)	Disqualification of the contractor from eligibility for any contracts with the City for a period not to exceed five years, with a right to review and reconsideration by the City after two years upon a showing of corrective action indicating violations are not likely to reoccur. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12T.5; added by Ord. 3-02, File No. 011796, App. 1/18/2002) 
SEC. 1005.  SEVERABILITY. 
	If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or portion of this Chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court or federal or State agency of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 12T.6; added by Ord. 3-02, File No. 011796, App. 1/18/2002) 
CHAPTER 11:
CELL PHONE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS 
Sec. 1100.Title. Sec. 1101.Definitions. Sec. 1102.Requirements for Cell Phone Service Providers. Sec. 1103.Requirements for Cell Phone Retailers. Sec. 1104.Requirements for the Department of the Environment. Sec. 1105.Enforcement. Sec. 1106.Disclaimer. 
SEC. 1100.  TITLE. 
	This Chapter may be known as the "Cell Phone Right-to-Know Ordinance." 
(Added by Ord. 155-10, File No. 100104, App. 7/1/2010) 
SEC. 1101.  DEFINITIONS. 
	For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context requires otherwise: 
	(a)	"Cell phone" means a portable wireless telephone device that is designed to send or receive transmissions through a cellular radiotelephone service, as defined in Section 22.99 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations. A cell phone does not include a wireless telephone device that is integrated into the electrical architecture of a motor vehicle. 
	(b)	"Cell phone retailer" means any person or entity within the City which sells or leases cell phones to the public or which offers cell phones for sale or lease. "Cell phone retailer" shall not include anyone selling or leasing cell phones over the phone, by mail, or over the internet. "Cell phone retailer" shall also not include anyone selling or leasing cell phones directly to the public at a convention, trade show, or conference, or otherwise selling or leasing cell phones directly to the public within the City for fewer than 10 days in a year. 
	(c)	"Cell phone service provider" means a telecommunications common carrier authorized to offer and provide cellular service for hire to the general public. 
	(d)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of the Environment, or his or her designee. 
	(e)	"Display materials" means informational or promotional materials posted adjacent to a sample phone or phones on display at the retail location that describe or list the features of the phone. "Display materials" shall not include any tag, sticker, or decal attached to a cell phone by the manufacturer, the manufacturer's packaging for a cell phone, or materials that list only the price and an identifier for the phone. 
(Added by Ord. 155-10, File No. 100104, App. 7/1/2010; amended by Ord. 165-11, File No. 110656, App. 8/3/2011, Eff. 9/2/2011) 
SEC. 1102.  REQUIREMENTS FOR CELL PHONE SERVICE PROVIDERS. 
	Any cell phone service provider that sells its service through a retailer in the City must provide a list of those retail locations to the Department of the Environment in a form determined by the Department. The service provider must update the list annually The Department shall adopt regulations governing the form and submission of the lists. 
(Added by Ord. 155-10, File No. 100104, App. 7/1/2010; amended by Ord. 165-11, File No. 110656, App. 8/3/2011, Eff. 9/2/2011) 
SEC. 1103.  REQUIREMENTS FOR CELL PHONE RETAILERS. 
	(a)	Beginning 15 days after the Department of the Environment adopts the regulations required under Section 1104(d), cell phone retailers must display in a prominent location visible to the public, within the retail store, an informational poster developed by the Department of the Environment as referenced in Section 1104.
	(b)	Beginning 15 days after the Department of the Environment adopts the regulations required under Section 1104(d), cell phone retailers must provided to every customer that purchases a cell phone a free copy of an informational factsheet developed by the Department of the Environment as referenced in Section 1104.  A copy of this factsheet must also be provided to any customer who requests it, regardless of whether they purchase a cell phone or not.
	(c)	Beginning 30 days after the Department of the Environment adopts the regulations required under Section 1104(d), if a cell phone retailer posts display materials in connection with sample phones or phones on display, the display materials must include these three informational statements, whose contents, and size, and format as printed, shall be determined by the Department of the Environment:
		(1)	A statement explaining that cell phones emit radiofrequency energy that is absorbed by the head and body;
		(2)	A statement referencing measures to reduce exposure to radiofrequency energy from the use of a cell phone; and, 
		(3)	A statement that the informational factsheet referenced in subsection (b) is available from the cell phone retailer upon request.
	(d)	The Director may, in his or her discretion, authorize a retailer to use alternate means to comply with the requirements of subsections (a), (b) and (c). The Director shall authorize such alternate means through the adoption of a regulation after a noticed hearing, and no retailer may sell or lease cell phones to the public or offer to sell or lease cell phones to the public using any alternate means of compliance with this Chapter unless specifically authorized to do so in advance in writing by the Director. 
(Added by Ord. 155-10, File No. 100104, App. 7/1/2010; Ord. 6-11, File No. 101419, App. 1/7/2011; amended by Ord. 165-11, File No. 110656, App. 8/3/2011, Eff. 9/2/2011) 
SEC. 1104.  REQUIREMENTS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENT. 
	(a)	Following a public hearing, the Department of the Environment, in consultation with the Department of Public Health, shall develop:
		(1)	An informational poster, as referenced in Section 1103(a);
		(2)	An informational factsheet, as referenced in Section 1103(b); and,
		(3)	A set of statements that must be included in display materials, as referenced in Section 1103(c).
	(b)	The materials shall inform consumers of issues pertaining to radiofrequency energy emissions from cell phones and actions that can be taken by cell phone users to minimize exposure to radiofrequency energy, such as turning off cell phones when not in use, using a headset and speaker phone, or using the phone to send text messages ("texting").
	(c)	The Director may by regulation require the inclusion of additional information in the poster, the factsheet, and/or the statements required in connection with display materials.
	(d)	Within 15 days after the effective date of this ordinance or as soon thereafter as is practicable, the Department of the Environment shall, after a noticed public hearing, issue regulations specifying the contents, size, and format for the poster, the factsheet, and the statements required in connection with display materials as referenced in subsection (a), and provide templates of them for use by retailers.
		(1)	The informational poster shall be a maximum size of 11 inches by 17 inches;
		(2)	The informational factsheet shall be a maximum size of 5.5 inches by 11 inches (half-sheet of paper); and,
		(3)	The informational statements shall be printed in a space no smaller that 1 inch by 2.625 inches.
	(e)1	Should the scientific community or the FCC develop a new metric to measure the actual amount of radiofrequency an average user will absorb from each model of cell phone, the Department of the Environment shall make recommendations to the Board of Supervisors for amendments to this Chapter to require notification to the public of this metric at the point of sale.
(Added by Ord. 15510, File No. 100104, App. 7/1/2010; amended by Ord. 165-11, File No. 110656, App. 8/3/2011, Eff. 9/2/2011) 
CODIFICATION NOTE
1.	The designation of this division was corrected by the codifier.
SEC. 1105.  ENFORCEMENT. 
	(a)	The City Administrator shall issue a written warning to any person he or she determines is violating provisions of this Chapter or any regulation issued under this Chapter. If 30 days after issuance of the written warning the City Administrator finds that the person receiving the warning has continued to violate the provisions of the Chapter or any regulation issued under this Chapter, the City Administrator may impose administrative fines as provided below in subsections (b), (c) and (d). 
	(b)	Violation of this Chapter or any regulation issued under this Chapter shall be punishable by administrative fines in the amount of: 
		(1)	Up to $100.00 for the first violation; 
		(2)	Up to $250.00 for the second violation within a twelve-month period; and, 
		(3)	Up to $500.00 for the third and subsequent violations within a twelve-month period. 
	(c)	Except as provided in subsection (b), setting forth the amount of administrative fines, Administrative Code Chapter 100, "Procedures Governing the Imposition of Administrative Fines," as may be amended form time to time, is hereby incorporated in its entirety and shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection, and review of administrative citations issued by the City Administrator to enforce this Chapter or any regulation issued under this Chapter. Violation of this Chapter is not a misdemeanor, and the Board of Supervisors intends that the requirements of this Chapter be enforced only through administrative fines as provided in this Section. 
	(d)	For purposes of this Chapter, each individual item that is sold or leased, or offered for sale or lease, contrary to the provisions of this Chapter or any regulation issued under this Chapter shall constitute a separate violation. 
(Added by Ord. 155-10, File No. 100104, App. 7/1/2010; amended by Ord. 6-11, File No. 101419, App. 1/7/ 2011; Ord. 165-11, File No. 110656, App. 8/3/2011, Eff. 9/2/2011) 
SEC. 1106.  DISCLAIMER. 
	In adopting and implementing this Chapter, the City and County of San Francisco is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. 
(Added by Ord. 155-10, File No. 100104, App. 7/1/2010) 
CHAPTER 12:
URBAN FORESTRY COUNCIL 
Sec. 1200.Purpose—Urban Forestry Council. Sec. 1201.Scope of Authority. Sec. 1202.Council Composition and Administration. Sec. 1203.Responsibilities. Sec. 1204.Urban Forest Plan. Sec. 1205.Public Education and Outreach. Sec. 1206.Best Management Practices. Sec. 1207.Funding Assessment. Sec. 1208.Staffing Support and Responsibilities.Sec. 1209.Reporting Responsibility. 
SEC. 1200.  PURPOSE-URBAN FORESTRY COUNCIL. 
	(a)	It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors to form an Urban Forestry Council that will protect the community interest and ensure that San Francisco realizes the full range of tree benefits into the future. The Board also intends to replace any existing tree advisory bodies that the Board of Supervisors has created through legislation. 
	(b)	The purpose of the Council is to guide the stewardship of San Francisco's trees by promoting a healthy and sustainable urban forest that benefits all San Franciscans while ensuring public health and safety. 
	(c)	To meet this purpose, the Council shall work with all the affected stakeholders to: 
		(1)	Develop and adopt a comprehensive urban forest plan; 
		(2)	Educate the public on urban forestry issues; 
		(3)	Develop and adopt tree care standards; 
		(4)	Identify funding and staffing needs and opportunities for urban forestry programs; 
		(5)	Report on the state of the urban forest; 
		(6)	Help secure and encourage commitment of adequate resources for tree programs; and 
		(7)	Facilitate coordination among agencies with tree management responsibilities. 
	(d)	This Chapter applies the Precautionary Principle to the management of trees in San Francisco by emphasizing public participation, preservation, and expansion of the urban forest. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 5.230; added by Ord. 21-01, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001) 
SEC. 1201.  SCOPE OF AUTHORITY. 
	(a)	The Council's scope of authority is limited to the territorial boundaries of the City and County of San Francisco. 
	(b)	The Council shall consider issues as they relate to trees on property managed by government agencies, non-profit organizations, and private property owners. 
	(c)	In order to effectively address the whole of the urban forest, the Council also shall consider issues as they relate to trees on private property. 
	(d)	The Council's scope of authority is completely advisory and educational in nature. The Council will have no authority to legislate. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 5.231; added by Ord. 21-01, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001) 
SEC. 1202.  COUNCIL COMPOSITION AND ADMINISTRATION. 
	(a)	Council members will represent the full range of urban forest stakeholders including City agencies, non-profit organizations, tree management organizations, and community members. The Council shall be composed of eleven voting members. 
		(1)	The Board of Supervisors shall appoint seven voting members: 
			(A)	One member from an educational organization involved with tree management (University of California Cooperative Extension, etc.); 
			(B)	Two members certified by a professional tree management organization (International Society of Arboriculture, American Society of Consulting Arborists, or American Society of Landscape Architects, etc.); 
			(C)	Two members of non-profit organizations involved in urban forestry or other environmentally-related issues; and 
			(D)	Two members from the community. 
		(2)	The Mayor shall appoint two voting members: 
			(A)	One member from the tree care industry; and 
			(B)	One member at large. 
		(3)	The following departments shall have voting members: 
			(A)	The Director of the Department of Public Works or his or her designee; and 
			(B)	The Director of the Planning Department or his or her designee. 
	(b)	The Council shall have advisory members comprised of representatives from the following departments: 
		(1)	The Recreation and Park Department; and 
		(2)	The Public Utilities Commission. In addition, the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency and the Golden Gate National Recreation Area are invited to send representatives to sit as advisory members of the Council. 
	(c)	Council members shall serve for two years. Members can serve successive terms if reappointed by the body originally appointing the Council member. Council members serve at the will of the body that appoints each Council member as specified above. The body that appoints Council members also may appoint at-large members to serve any unfilled Council positions. 
	(d)	The Council shall meet at least once each month. 
	(e)	The Council shall establish its own operating procedures, which, at a minimum, shall meet the public notice, meeting, voting, agenda and other procedural requirements set forth in local law. 
	(f)	Subcommittees shall be created to adequately address other special areas of concern on an as needed basis. 
	(g)	The Department of the Environment, with adequate funding to assist the Council in carrying out its mission, shall provide professional and administrative staff to the Council. 
	(h)	All members of the Council shall serve without compensation. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 5.232; added by Ord. 21-01, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001; Ord. 210-08, File No. 080233, App. 9/19/2008) 
SEC. 1203.  RESPONSIBILITIES. 
	(a)	The Council's responsibilities shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
		(1)	Advise the Mayor, Board of Supervisors, city departments and commissions on urban forestry concerns; 
		(2)	Review project plans for major publicly-sponsored developments and civic improvements and changes to the public right-of-way as they may impact trees. Based on its review, the Council shall make recommendations regarding these projects to the Planning Department and other affected agencies; 
		(3)	Establish criteria for a landmark/heritage tree program to provide for the protection of valuable trees on public and private property. The program shall propose administrative procedures and a tree removal appeal process for landmark/heritage trees; 
		(4)	Adopt guidelines for protecting trees during project design and construction; 
		(5)	Encourage early and continuous public participation in urban forestry projects and programs that includes consideration of neighborhood interests; 
		(6)	Facilitate the cooperative interaction of tree-related activities among various city, State, and federal agencies, as well as among businesses, public utilities, non-profit organizations, and the public; 
		(7)	Notify and involve public agencies when issues relate to trees on lands under their jurisdiction; 
		(8)	Provide at designated Council meetings for a regular forum that follows an agenda of scheduled topics for public discussion of urban forestry issues; 
		(9)	Assist with the formulation of legislation and policies that affect trees; 
		(10)	Serve as a clearinghouse for information related to the urban forest through the Department of the Environment; 
		(11)	Prepare the plans and reports as set forth in this legislation; and 
		(12)	Assist agencies with tree management responsibilities in their efforts to incorporate and follow the urban forest plan guidelines, best management practices, and other Council recommendations and policies. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 5.233; added by Ord. 21-01, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001) 
SEC. 1204.  URBAN FOREST PLAN. 
	(a)	To assure well-guided stewardship of San Francisco's trees, the Council shall develop and adopt a long-term comprehensive plan that sets policy for the management of the City's public and private trees. This Urban Forest Plan shall be developed in consultation with affected City agencies and with input from interested members of the public. 
		(1)	The planning process for such Plan shall include an assessment of the current condition of the urban forest and create a vision and goals that incorporate community values on urban forestry stewardship. 
		(2)	The Planning process also shall include consideration of and referral to existing plans that relate to trees, including, but not limited to, plans for reforestation of parks and plans for street trees. 
		(3)	The Plan shall include strategies and activities for achieving the envisioned urban forest. It shall include specific guidance to agencies and the public in developing education programs, establishing continuous and consistent tree care practices, identifying funding priorities and opportunities, and assuring that all needs of the urban forest are recognized and addressed. 
	(b)	The Council shall oversee periodic updates to the Plan and evaluate the effectiveness of agencies in reaching the Plan's goals. 
	(c)	Prior to adoption of the Plan or amendment thereto, the Council shall forward the plan and amendments to affected city agencies for review. 
	(d)	The Council shall work with the Planning Department and the Department of the Environment to incorporate elements of the Urban Forest Plan into the City's General Plan. 
	(e)	The Council shall work with the Recreation and Park Department and the Department of the Environment to incorporate elements of the Urban Forest Plan into the Recreation and Park Department's forestation plans. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 5.234; added by Ord. 21-01, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001) 
SEC. 1205.  PUBLIC EDUCATION AND OUTREACH. 
	(a)	To improve management by individual property owners and those who provide tree services to property owners, the Council shall assist with education programs. The Council shall design education programs for the public and tree care professionals to inform and gain public support for urban forestry programs. 
	(b)	The Council shall promote trees as essential infrastructure with inherent value to the City of San Francisco. As infrastructure, trees will require consideration when designing and engineering public and private development projects. 
	(c)	The Council shall promote an understanding of San Francisco's urban forest as habitat for the wild animals that make up a significant part of San Francisco's natural heritage. 
	(d)	The Council's outreach shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
		(1)	Fostering an understanding of the value of trees; 
		(2)	Promoting public understanding of City tree programs and laws; 
		(3)	Working with the media to bring urban forest concerns and information to the public; 
		(4)	Facilitating presentations, programs, and other outreach to property owners and the business and corporate community; and 
		(5)	Promoting special events such as a citywide Arbor Day. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 5.235; added by Ord. 21-01, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001) 
SEC. 1206.  BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. 
	(a)	In an effort to establish and maintain a healthy and sustainable urban forest and ensure public health and safety, the Council shall develop and adopt tree care best management practices for public and private trees. The practices for tree maintenance shall focus on the protection of trees from premature death and irreversible damage caused by improper or inadequate tree maintenance. 
	(b)	The Council shall develop the best management practices in consultation with affected City agencies and with input from interested members of the public. The Council's evaluation of such practices shall incorporate an analysis of the projected costs for implementation of the practices. The best management practices shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
		(1)	Species selection; 
		(2)	Planting practices; 
		(3)	Young tree care; 
		(4)	Tree pruning and maintenance; and 
		(5)	Tree removal. 
	(c)	The Council, with the assistance of the Board of Supervisors, shall urge and encourage City, State, and federal agencies, as well as private property owners and tree care companies working in San Francisco, to adhere to the Council's management practices and tree care standards. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 5.236; added by Ord. 21-01, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001) 
SEC. 1207.  FUNDING ASSESSMENT. 
	(a)	The Board of Supervisors shall make efforts to provide adequate funding for the Department of the Environment's support of the Council. 
	(b)	In the event funding is not allocated by the City and County of San Francisco for staffing the Council, the Council shall pursue funds for any shortfall in the necessary staffing and support activities and additional funds for any other project it deems necessary to implement this legislation. 
	(c)	To ensure that adequate resources are available for tree management and that public funding is used wisely, the Council shall: 
		(1)	Review urban forest program budget priorities and make recommendations about urban forest funding requirements to the Mayor, Board of Supervisors, and affected city departments and commissions; 
		(2)	Investigate and pursue funding options for various urban forest activities; 
		(3)	Assist agencies and organizations in securing funding for urban forest programs; 
		(4)	Apply for and accept grants for public agency or privately sponsored urban forest programs pursuant to the procedures in the Administrative Code; and 
		(5)	Determine whether there are opportunities to improve efficiency and eliminate possible redundancies among managing agencies through city-wide, coordination of tree operations. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 5.237; added by Ord. 21-01, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001) 
SEC. 1208.  STAFFING SUPPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES. 
	(a)	A coordinator from the Department of the Environment shall staff the Council. The coordinator's responsibilities shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
		(1)	Fundraising; 
		(2)	Developing and drafting guidelines for adoption; 
		(3)	Preparing staff and annual reports; 
		(4)	Coordinating with other agencies; and 
		(5)	Develop an annual city-wide tree management budget for local governmental agencies. 
	(b)	The coordinator is essential in order to implement the intent of this legislation. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 5.238; added by Ord. 21-01, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001) 
SEC. 1209.  REPORTING RESPONSIBILITY. 
	(a)	The Council shall report to the Board of Supervisors and Mayor by September 1st of each year regarding the state of the urban forest. The report shall contain a review the quality of urban forest stewardship and an assessment of how well public agencies and other urban forest managers are implementing the Urban Forest Plan. The report shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
		(1)	Condition of the urban forest, species composition, and other tree stand characteristics; 
		(2)	Summary of urban forest activities, such as total number of trees, number of trees removed, and number of trees planted on private lands and under the jurisdictions of public agencies and non-profit organizations. 
		(3)	Analysis of the adherence to the Urban Forest Plan; 
		(4)	Analysis of the adherence to the best management practices; 
		(5)	The Council's public education and outreach projects; 
		(6)	Notable achievements in urban forest; 
		(7)	The status of funding for urban forest programs; and 
		(8)	Proposals for tree care guidelines or changes to adopted tree care programs or plans. 
	(b)	City agencies and any non-profit organizations that accept city funding shall report to the Council regarding the trees they manage, the extent to which their management plans correspond to the Urban Forest Plan, and implementation of the best management practices. The Council shall receive the report no later than June 30 of each year. Other public entities also are urged to submit reports to the Council regarding the trees they manage. 
	(c)	City agencies that do not adhere to the policies, guidelines, or standards outlined in the Urban Forest Plan or best management practices shall explain their reasoning at a public hearing before the Council. 
	(d)	Within ninety (90) days of the Council's establishment, the Council shall adopt procedures to address the public hearing process specified in Subsection (c) above. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 5.239; added by Ord. 21-01, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001) 
Editor’s Note: 
	Ordinance 21-01, §§ 3 through 5, File No. 002106, App. 2/16/2001 contained the following provisions which were not codified as part of this Article XXIII: "After six (6) years from the effective date of this legislation, the Board shall review the status of the Urban Forest Council. The Council shall continue to operate unless the Board, by ordinance, terminates this Article or creates a successor to the Urban Forestry Council. 
	This legislation shall not be operative unless and until funding becomes available for the Department of the Environment to fund the Urban Forestry Council coordinator position specified in San Francisco Administrative Code Article XXIII, Section 5.238 and associated staff support. Within six (6) months after funding becomes available, the Urban Forestry Council shall be appointed and established. 
	This legislation and its implementing actions shall not supersede provisions of the City's General Plan, Recreation and Open Space Element, Citywide System, Objective 2, Policy 13 concerning the preservation and protection of significant natural resource areas. In addition, this legislation and its implementing actions shall not supersede the reforestation program for Golden Gate Park as set forth in the Golden Gate Park Master Plan." 
CHAPTER 13:
ARSENIC-TREATED WOOD 
Sec. 1300.Findings and Purpose. Sec. 1301.Definitions. Sec. 1302.Environmentally Preferable Alternatives. Sec. 1303.Purchase of Alternatives. Sec. 1304.Exemptions. Sec. 1305.Replacing Existing Structures; Management Program. Sec. 1306.Report to Commission. Sec. 1307.Report to Board of Supervisors. Sec. 1308.Disposal. Sec. 1309.Citywide Ban. Sec. 1310.Guidelines. 
SEC. 1300.  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE. 
	The Board of Supervisors finds and declares that: 
	(a)	Preservative-treated wood containing arsenic poses potential health risks to children in San Francisco who are potentially exposed to arsenic, a known human carcinogen, by playing on City wooden playground and park equipment. Studies conducted in California, Connecticut and Florida suggest that arsenic leaches from preservative-treated wood containing arsenic and can end up on children's hands and in their mouths. 
	(b)	California Health and Safety Code Section 115775 requires that play structures constructed with preservative-treated wood containing arsenic be adequately sealed every two years. 
	(c)	Preservative-treated wood containing arsenic poses potential human health and environmental risks through the release of arsenic during manufacture, installation, and disposal of wood. 
	(d)	There are a variety of alternatives to preservative-treated wood containing arsenic compounds readily available throughout California. 
	(e)	Preservative-treated wood is also used for saltwater immersion environments for structures such as pilings and piers, but until such time as a viable alternative is available, best management practices should be followed for these uses. 
	(f)	Under this Chapter, the City and County of San Francisco wishes to exercise its power to make economic decisions involving its own funds as a participant in the marketplace and to conduct its own business as a municipal corporation to ensure that purchases and expenditures of public monies are made in a manner consistent with its policies. 
	(g)	This Chapter applies the Precautionary Principle to the selection and maintenance of pressure treated wood used to build City structures such as buildings, decks, fences, and play equipment by banning the use of arsenic-containing wood preservatives and requiring protective sealing of existing structures. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.1; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
SEC. 1301.  DEFINITIONS. 
	Whenever used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below. 
	(a)	"Preservative-treated wood containing arsenic" shall mean wood treated with a preservative that contains arsenic, elemental arsenic, or an arsenic copper combination, including but not limited to, chromated copper arsenate preservative, ammoniacal copper zinc arsenate preservative, or ammoniacal copper arsenate preservative. 
	(b)	"City Department" shall mean any department of the City and County of San Francisco. City Department does not include any other local agency or any federal or State agency, including but not limited to the San Francisco Unified School District, the San Francisco Community College District, the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency, and the San Francisco Housing Authority. 
	(c)	"Commission" shall mean the Commission on the Environment provided for by San Francisco Charter Section 4.118. 
	(d)	"Contract" means a binding written agreement, including, but not limited to a contract, lease, permit, license or easement between a person, firm, corporation or other entity, including a governmental entity, and a City Department for the purchase of preservative-treated wood. 
	(e)	"Contractor" shall mean an individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation, partnership, and governmental entities, to the extent allowable by law, that enters into a Contract with a City Department. 
	(f)	"Department" shall mean the San Francisco Department of the Environment provided for by San Francisco Charter Section 4.118. 
	(g)	"Saltwater immersion" shall mean a pressure-treated wood that is used for construction purposes or facilities that are partially or totally immersed in saltwater. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.2; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
SEC. 1302.  ENVIRONMENTALLY PREFERABLE ALTERNATIVES. 
	No later than March 30, 2003, the Department shall identify, prepare and adopt, at a public meeting, a list of environmentally preferable alternatives to preservative-treated wood containing arsenic. The list shall include information on specific wood preservatives, appropriate applications for each preservative, costs, product availability and another pertinent information. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.3; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
SEC. 1303.  PURCHASE OF ALTERNATIVES. 
	Except as provided in this Section, after June 30, 2003, each City Department entering into a new Contract or extending the term of an existing Contract for the purchase of preservative-treated wood products, and each Contractor purchasing preservative-treated wood products on behalf of the City, shall only purchase such products from the list of alternatives adopted by the Department pursuant to Section 1302 of this Chapter. A City Department or Contractor that purchases preservative-treated wood containing arsenic for saltwater immersion shall be exempt from this Section. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.4; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
SEC. 1304.  EXEMPTIONS. 
	(a)	On or after June 30, 2003, a City Department or Contractor may apply to the Department for an exemption from the ban on the purchase of preservative-treated wood containing arsenic imposed by Section 1303. The application for an exemption shall be filed on a form specified by the Department. The Department may grant the exemption upon a finding that the City Department or Contractor has: 
		(1)	Made a good faith effort to purchase an alternative on the list adopted by the Department pursuant to Section 1302 of this Chapter; or has demonstrated that the alternative is not economically viable for the proposed use or is not practical in limited circumstances; and 
		(2)	Developed a best management practice, including a plan for minimizing leaching or contact with human skin, if the exemption is granted. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.5; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
SEC. 1305.  REPLACING EXISTING STRUCTURES; MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. 
	(a)	No later than June 30, 2003, each City Department who owns or maintains playground equipment that is constructed with preservative-treated wood containing arsenic, where contact with human skin is likely, shall 
		(i)	take an inventory of such structures and develop a time-line and cost analysis for replacing these structures with non-wood alternatives or with alternatives on the list adopted by the Department pursuant to Section 1302 of this Chapter; 
		(ii)	develop a written management program for preservative-treated wood containing arsenic, including best management practices, schedules and protocols for testing for leaching of arsenic and chromium, sealing and posting of warning language where contact with human skin is likely and update this program on a regular basis; and 
		(iii)	provide the Department with copies of these documents. 
	(b)	No later than June 30, 2003, each City Department who owns or maintains park structures other than playground equipment, including benches and picnic tables, that are constructed with preservative-treated wood containing arsenic, where contact with human skin is likely, shall develop a plan to inventory and manage, including sealing and replacement, such structures and submit that plan to the Department. 
	(c)	No later than June 30, 2003, each City Department that owns or maintains facilities not addressed in Sections (a) or (b) above that are constructed with preservative-treated wood containing arsenic and where frequent contact with human skin is likely, shall take an inventory of its facilities and submit a plan to seal or replace such facilities. Each City Department subject to this Section shall provide the Department with a copy of the inventory and plan. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.6; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
SEC. 1306.  REPORT TO COMMISSION. 
	No later than September 30, 2003, the Department shall report to the Commission on the progress of the programs and mandates directed by this Chapter. The report, at a minimum, shall include the following information: 
	(a)	A list of the alternatives to preservative-treated wood containing arsenic pursuant to Section 1302. 
	(b)	A list of City Departments and Contractors requesting an exemption to this Chapter. 
	(c)	A summary of the reports submitted to the Department pursuant to Section 1305. 
	(d)	Any other information deemed relevant to eliminating the risk of exposure to preservative-treated wood containing arsenic. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.7; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
SEC. 1307.  REPORT TO BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. 
	No later than June 30, 2005, the Commission shall report to the Board of Supervisors on the progress of the programs and mandates directed by this Chapter. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.8; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
SEC. 1308.  DISPOSAL. 
	All City departments shall dispose of preservative-treated wood containing arsenic in an approved landfill and shall not make preservative-treated wood containing arsenic available for re-use, incineration or for use as wood chips or mulch. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.9; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
SEC. 1309.  CITYWIDE BAN. 
	No later than June 30, 2003, the Department of Building Inspection and the Department shall investigate and report to the Commission on the possibility of imposing a citywide ban on the sale, purchase and installation of preservative-treated wood containing arsenic. At a minimum, the report shall contain an assessment of the legality, feasibility and cost implications of imposing a citywide ban. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.10; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
SEC. 1310.  GUIDELINES. 
	The Department may issue guidelines, after a public meeting, to assist City Departments in the implementation of this Chapter. 
(Added by Ord. 171-03, File No. 030422, App. 7/3/2003) 
(Derivation Former Administrative Code Section 21G.11; added by Ord. 15-03, File No. 021791, App. 2/7/2003) 
CHAPTER 14:
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS RECOVERY ORDINANCE* 
Sec. 1400.Findings. Sec. 1401.Definitions. Sec. 1402.Requirements. Sec. 1403.Reserved. Sec. 1404.Registration Requirement for Facilities and Transporters. Sec. 1405.Registration Criteria. Sec. 1406.General Terms and Conditions for Registered Facilities and Transporters. Sec. 1407.Trade Secrets. Sec. 1408.Reserved. Sec. 1409.List of Registered Facilities and Registered Transporters. Sec. 1410.Enforcement. Sec. 1411.Reports. Sec. 1412.Forms, Regulations and Guidelines. Sec. 1413.Cost of Implementation. Sec. 1414.Reserved. Sec. 1415.Disclaimer of Liability. Sec. 1416.Duties are Discretionary. Sec. 1417.Severability. 
*Editor’s Note: 
	Ordinance 27-06, File No. 051142, Approved February 16, 2006, from which Chapter 14 of this Code derives, shall take effect on July 1, 2006. 
SEC. 1400.  FINDINGS. 
	The Board of Supervisors finds and declares the following: 
	A.	People who live in, work in or visit San Francisco generate 1.8 million tons of solid waste annually with more than half of these materials recovered through waste prevention, recycling and composting. 
	B.	The State of California through its California Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989, Assembly Bill 939 (AB 939), requires that each local jurisdiction in the state divert 50% of discarded materials (base year 1990) from landfill. Every city and county in California, including the City, could face fines up to $10,000 a day for not meeting the above mandated goal. 
	C.	The Source Reduction and Recycling Element (SRRE) for San Francisco adopted by the Board of Supervisors in 1992, recognized the importance of recovering wood, metals, and inerts from construction and demolition activities in order to meet the state mandated waste reduction goal. 
	D.	The Board of Supervisors adopted Resolution No. 679-02 setting a goal of 75% diversion from landfill by 2010 and promoting the highest and best use of recovered materials and authorizing the Commission on the Environment to adopt a zero waste goal, which it set as 2020. 
	E.	The Green Building Ordinance, Chapter 7 of the Environment Code, establishes LEEDTM Silver level as the standard for all City building projects, which can include the goal of diverting 75% of construction and demolition debris from landfill for each project. 
	F.	There are facilities both within the City and in nearby surrounding areas that can effectively reuse, recycle or otherwise recover the constituent elements of the materials generated by construction and demolition activity and thereby divert such materials from landfill. 
	G.	Construction and demolition waste recovery programs reduce the amount of materials generated and hauled to landfill, decrease worker exposure to hazards, improve worker safety, reduce truck trips and traffic and improve air quality, thereby enhancing the health, safety and welfare of San Franciscans. 
	H.	This Chapter requires construction and demolition debris to be transported by a registered vehicle and processed by a registered facility in order to ensure proper handling and to recover an additional estimated 100,000 tons from landfill disposal annually.
	I.	State law requires the California Integrated Waste Management Board to adopt a model construction and demolition debris ordinance and requires that Board to take into account a city's efforts to encourage or require recovery of construction and demolition debris in determining whether a city has met the mandated 50% recovery rate and other solid waste reduction and recycling requirements. This Chapter would help the City maintain the levels required by the state mandate and achieve the City's goals of 75% landfill diversion by 2010 and zero waste by 2020. 
	J.	In keeping with the Precautionary Principle, codified in Chapter 1 of the Environment Code, this Chapter requires proper handling of construction debris as a deterrent to unsafe and wasteful practices. In this way, the City will create and maintain a healthy, viable environment for current and future generations, and will become a model of sustainability. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1401.  DEFINITIONS. 
	For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words have the following meanings: 
	(a)	"Alternative Daily Cover" or "ADC" shall mean materials, other than soil, that have been approved by the California Integrated Waste Management Board or a successor agency for use as an overlay on an exposed landfill face. 
	(b)	"Bio-mass Conversion" shall mean the controlled combustion, when separated from other solid waste and used for producing electricity or heat, of wood, woodchips, woodwaste, tree and brush prunings. Bio-mass conversion does not include the controlled combustion of recyclable pulp or recyclable paper materials, sludge, medical or hazardous waste. 
	(c)	"Construction and Demolition Debris" shall mean building materials and solid waste generated from construction and demolition activities, including, but not limited to, fully-cured asphalt, concrete, brick, rock, soil, lumber, gypsum wallboard, cardboard and other associated packaging, roofing material, ceramic tile, carpeting, fixtures, plastic pipe, metals, tree stumps, and other vegetative matter resulting from land clearing and landscaping for construction, deconstruction, demolition or land developments. This term does not include; refuse regulated under the 1932 Refuse Collection and Disposal Initiative Ordinance or sections of the Municipal Code that implement the provisions of that ordinance; materials excavated from the public right-ofway; or, unless otherwise specified in Section 1402(b), materials source separated for reuse or recycling. Hazardous waste, as defined in California Health and Safety Code section 25100 et seq., as amended, is not Construction and Demolition Debris for purposes of this Chapter. 
	(d)	"Department" shall mean the San Francisco Department of the Environment. 
	(e)	"Director" shall mean the Director of the Department of the Environment or his or her designee. 
	(f)	"Facility" shall mean a facility that receives and processes construction and demolition debris into its component material types for reuse, recycling, and disposal of residuals. 
	(g)	"Person" shall mean a natural person, a firm, joint stock company, business concern, association, partnership or corporation or governmental entity, including the City and County of San Francisco and its departments, boards and commissions for projects within the geographic boundaries of the City, and its or their successors or assigns. 
	(h)	"Recover" or "Recovery" shall mean any activity, including source reduction, deconstruction and salvaging, reuse, recycling and composting, which causes materials to be recovered for use as a resource and diverted from disposal. 
	(i)	"Registered Transporter" or "Registered Facility" shall mean a person who holds a valid registration issued by the Director pursuant to this Chapter. 
	(j)	"Transport" or "Transportation" shall mean transportation of construction and demolition debris, "Transport" or "Transportation" does not include transportation of less than one cubic yard of construction and demolition debris or transportation in a vehicle that has no more than two axles and no more than two tires per axle. 
	(k)	"Transporter" shall mean a person that transports construction and demolition debris as defined in this Chapter. "Transporter" does not include a person that owns the property at which the construction and demolition debris was generated. 
	(l)	"Vehicle" shall mean a vehicle used to transport construction and demolition debris as those terms are defined in this Chapter. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1402.  REQUIREMENTS. 
	(a)	Except as provided in this Chapter, no person, other than the owner of the property where the construction and demolition debris was generated, may transport and no person may process construction and demolition debris unless that person has a registration from the Department as provided in this Chapter. Except as provided in this Chapter, all construction and demolition debris, regardless of transport or volume, must be processed at a registered facility. 
	(b)	A person conducting full demolition of an existing structure must submit a waste diversion plan to the Director which provides for a minimum of 65% diversion from landfill of construction and demolition debris, including materials source separated for reuse or recycling which would otherwise not be subject to this Chapter. The plan may propose to use facilities and transporters that are not registered under this Chapter. The waste diversion plan must be submitted to the Director at the time the person applies for a demolition permit from the Department of Building Inspection and must include the following information: a list of all material types and volumes anticipated from the demolition; the market or destination for each material; the estimated recovery rate (diversion from landfill) by material or market; and the anticipated transporter for each material type. The Director shall make a determination as to the adequacy of the plan within five (5) business days and shall notify the Department of Building Inspection of its decision. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1403.  RESERVED. 
SEC. 1404.  REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT FOR FACILITIES AND TRANSPORTERS. 
	(a)	A person subject to Section 1402 shall apply for a registration by filing with the Director an application form prescribed by the Director, which contains the following information, and the information set forth in Section 1405. 
		(i)	For construction and demolition debris processing facilities: the name and address of the person who owns the facility; the name and address of the person who operates the facility; a statement that the owner or operator has all permits, authorizations or licenses required by any local, state or federal agency to operate the facility and all necessary insurance. 
		(ii)	For transporters of construction and demolition debris: the name and address of the person who owns the vehicle(s); a statement that the vehicle(s) and each operator has all permits, authorizations or licenses and any insurance required by any local, state or federal agency to operate the vehicle(s). An owner of a vehicle may obtain a single registration covering all vehicles and all debris boxes or other containers, provided that each vehicle is clearly and prominently marked as belonging to that owner (with the name of the business entity). The owner of the vehicle(s) is responsible for compliance by any operator of a vehicle owned by that person being used to transport construction and demolition debris. 
	(b)	The person who owns the facility or the vehicle(s) must certify the accuracy of the information submitted in the application form under penalty of perjury. 
	(c)	The Director must act on an application form within 15 days of receipt. 
	(d)	If the Director determines that the information required by the application form is not complete, the Director will provide written notice to the potential registrant of the remaining information needed. 
	(e)	If the Director determines that the application form is complete, the Director shall issue a registration containing the following minimum information: a reference to the general terms and conditions specified in Section 1406; the name and address of the registrant, the name and address of the facility (if applicable); the effective and expiration date of the registration; and a registration number assigned by the Director. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1405.  REGISTRATION CRITERIA. 
	The owner of the facility or the transporter shall include the following information in the application form described in Section 1404. 
	(a)	For Facilities. 
		(i)	The facility meets an overall minimum recovery rate of 65 percent for construction and demolition debris (based on the most recent month), which may include materials used as ADC or bio-mass conversion, provided that the facility can demonstrate that the use as ADC or bio-mass conversion is the highest and best use. The recovery rate will be determined by the total quantity of materials delivered to established recycling and composting markets divided by the total quantity received by the registered facility. Highest and best use for ADC does not include ADC which is generated by intentional crushing or grinding of construction and demolition debris that has not been processed to remove wood, metal, wallboard, glass and other materials for which markets or uses other than ADC are available. Consistent with this section, the Director shall adopt regulations pursuant to Section 1412 to specify how the recovery rate will be calculated and when ADC or bio-mass conversion is considered to be the highest and best use of a particular material. 
		(ii)	The facility has and is implementing a hazardous waste load checking program to minimize hazardous waste accepted at the facility. 
		(iii)	The facility has no outstanding notices of violation from any federal, state or local agency that could affect the permits, authorizations or licenses required for its continued operation. 
		(iv)	The facility agrees to submit annual reports to the Director on forms and by dates specified by the Director pursuant to Section 1412. The reports must include, with respect to San Francisco materials only, the following information; the total quantity of material received at the registered facility, the breakdown of all of the specific recycled commodities, the end use of the recycled commodity (reuse, recycling, composting, ADC, bio-mass conversion) landfill destination for residuals, and the recovery ratio for the report period by processing area. 
		(v)	For each truckload received at a discrete facility processing area, the facility agrees to provide each vehicle with a uniquely numbered receipt specifying, at a minimum, the facility name and processing area, the quantity of material received and the current recovery rate for that processing area. The receipt will also include the identity of the transporter and the permit application number issued by the Department of Building Inspections, if any, associated with that load. 
		(vi)	The facility agrees to comply with the provisions of this Chapter; provide documentation to support the information in the application form, including the Section 1404(b) certification, to the Director upon request; and allow the Director to make inspections of the facility in order to verify the information in the application form and required reports. 
	(b)	For Transporters. 
		(i)	The owner has no outstanding notices of violation from any federal, state or local agency that could affect the permits, authorizations or licenses required for continued operation of his or her vehicles. 
		(ii)	The owner agrees to submit to the Director, upon request, the receipts specified in subsection (a)(v). 
		(iii)	The owner agrees that for each truckload of materials delivered to a facility, the operator of the vehicle will provide to the facility the permit application number, if any, associated with that load. 
		(iv)	The owner of the vehicle agrees to comply with the provisions of this Chapter; provide documentation to support the information in the application form, including the Section 1404(b) certification, to the Director upon request; and allow the Director to make inspections of vehicles in order to verify the information in the application form and reports. 
		(v)	The owner agrees that all vehicles will operate in accordance with state and federal laws and motor carrier regulations and in accordance with best business practices to ensure against leakage and unsafe loads. All Construction and Demolition Debris must be transported in either a fully enclosed vehicle or container and must be covered to minimize any potential spillage or littering. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1406.  GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR REGISTERED FACILITIES AND TRANSPORTERS. 
	The following terms and conditions shall apply to each registration: 
	(a)	A registration is valid for two years. 
	(b)	Each registrant must submit a registration renewal on a form specified by the Director thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of the registration. Except as provided in this subsection, if a registrant submits a properly completed renewal form thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date, the current registration will continue in full force and effect until the Director issues a registration or all administrative and judicial appeals have been exhausted or the time for appeal has expired. A person may not renew a registration during a period of suspension, either by filing a renewal form or by operation of law. At the end of the suspension period, the person may apply for a registration. 
	(c)	All records required to be kept by registered facilities and transporters shall be kept for at least three (3) years. 
	(d)	A registration is not transferable. 
	(e)	A registration does not take the place of any license required by state, federal or local law nor does compliance with the requirements of this Chapter relieve any party of compliance with any other applicable State, federal or local law. 
	(f)	A copy of proof of registration shall be prominently displayed at any registered facility and kept in a registered vehicle. 
	(g)	Within thirty (30) days of a change of any of the information required on a registration or renewal form, a registrant must file an amendment to the registration on a form prescribed by the Director. 
	(h)	Each registrant must notify the Director, in writing, within twenty-four (24) hours of the time a permit, authorization or license required by any local, state or federal agency to operate the facility or vehicle terminates, expires or is revoked or suspended. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1407.  TRADE SECRETS. 
	(a)	If a person believes that any information required to be reported or disclosed by this Chapter contains a trade secret, the person shall provide the information to the Director and shall notify the Director in writing of that belief, detailing the basis of the belief as to each specific item of information the person claims is a trade secret. For purposes of this Chapter, "trade secret" shall have the same meaning as it has under state law. The person designating information as a trade secret shall specify a name and street address for notification purposes and shall be responsible for updating such information. The Director shall not disclose any properly substantiated trade secret which is so designated by a person except as required by this Chapter or as otherwise required by law. 
	(b)	Information designated as trade secret may be disclosed to an officer or employee of the City and County of San Francisco, the State of California, or the United States of America for use in connection with the official duties of such officer or employee acting under authority of law for the protection of health, without liability on the part of the City. 
	(c)	When the Director or other City official or employee receives a request for information that has been designated as, or which the City determines may be, a trade secret, the City shall notify the person or business of the request. The City may request further evidence or explanation from the person as to why the information requested is a trade secret. If the City determines that the information does not constitute a trade secret, the City shall notify the person or business of that conclusion and that the information will be released by a specified date in order to provide the person or business the opportunity to obtain a court order prohibiting disclosure. 
	(d)	In adopting this Chapter, the Board of Supervisors does not intend to authorize or require the disclosure to the public of any trade secrets protected under the laws of the State of California. 
	(e)	This Section is not intended to empower a person or business to refuse to disclose any information, including but not limited to trade secrets, to the Director or other City Departments required under this Chapter. 
	(f)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, any officer or employee of the City and County of San Francisco, or former officer or employee or contractor with the City or employee thereof, who by virtue of such employment of official position has obtained possession or has had access to information, the disclosure of which is prohibited by this Section, and who, knowing that disclosure of the information is prohibited, knowingly and willfully discloses the information in any manner to any person or business not entitled to receive it, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1408.  RESERVED. 
SEC. 1409.  LIST OF REGISTERED FACILITIES AND REGISTERED TRANSPORTERS. 
	The Director will maintain a current list of registered facilities and registered transporters available at the Department's Office and on its website. The Director will update the list at least every sixty (60) days. The Director will work with the Department of Building Inspection and other City departments to ensure availability of this information to the public. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1410.  ENFORCEMENT. 
	(a)	The Director has authority to administer all provisions of this Chapter and to enforce its provisions by any lawful means available for such purpose. The Department of Building Inspection shall work together with the Director to coordinate enforcement of this Chapter with enforcement of relevant provisions of the Building Code. 
	(b)	In order to carry out the provisions of this Chapter, the Director has the authority to inspect any registered facility or registered transporter. This right of entry will be exercised only at reasonable hours, and with the consent of the owner of the vehicle or facility or with a proper inspection warrant. The Director will inspect each registered facility and transporter at least once annually. 
	(c)	Suspension of registration. Whenever the Director finds that information in a person's application, registration or any required report is inaccurate, a person does not have the appropriate permits, authorizations or licenses to operate the registered facility or vehicle, or that a person is violating or has violated this Chapter or the terms of a registration, the Director may issue an order suspending the registration as provided in this Section. The Director's order to suspend must include a written statement of the reasons for the suspension and must provide the person with an opportunity to respond in writing before the order becomes effective. The order shall provide the effective date and end date of the suspension. The suspension period will be no more than: one (1) month for the first violation; six (6) months for the second; and twelve months (12) for any subsequent violations. The Director's decision shall be final. 
	(d)	A final decision of the Director to suspend a registration may be appealed to the Board of Appeals in the manner prescribed in Article 1 of the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code. Any person who fails to appeal the Director's decision to the Board of Appeals within the time specified may not challenge a decision or final order of the Director in any judicial proceedings brought to enforce the decision or order or for other remedies. Within ninety (90) days of the decision of the Board of Appeals, a person may file with a Court of competent jurisdiction a petition for writ of mandate to review the Board of Appeals decision, provided that the responsible party has exhausted its administrative remedies. Any person who fails to file a petition within this 90-day period may not challenge a decision or final order of the Board of Appeals in any judicial proceedings brought to enforce the decision or order or for other remedies. Section 1094.5 of the California Code of Civil Procedure shall govern any proceedings conducted pursuant to this Section. In all proceedings pursuant to this Section, the Court shall affirm the Board of Appeal's decision if it is based upon substantial evidence in the whole record. This Section does not prohibit the Court from granting any appropriate relief within its jurisdiction. 
	(e)	The Director may request the City Attorney or the District Attorney, as the case may be, to commence an action to enforce this Chapter. 
		(i)	Civil Penalties. Any person who violates this Chapter shall be civilly liable to the City and County of San Francisco for a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed one-thousand dollars ($1,000) for each day in which the violation occurs. Each day that such violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. For a second violation of the Chapter, the civil penalty will be not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000) for each day in which the violation occurs. In determining civil penalties, the court shall consider the extent of harm caused by the violation(s), the nature and persistence of the violation(s), the length of time over which the violation(s) occur(s), the frequency of past violations, any action taken to mitigate the violation, and the financial burden to the violator. 
		(ii)	Criminal Penalties. Each violation shall be considered a separate misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months in the County Jail, or both. In determining criminal penalties, the court shall consider the extent of harm caused by the violation(s), the nature and persistence of the violation(s), the length of time over which the violation(s) occur(s), the frequency of past violations, any action taken to mitigate the violation, the financial burden to the violator, and such other factors as deemed relevant and material. 
	(f)	Remedies under this Section are in addition to and do not supersede or limit any and all other remedies, civil or criminal. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1411.  REPORTS. 
	Within two (2) years of the effective date of this Chapter, the Director shall report to the Commission on the Environment on the results of this ordinance, including the quantity recovered from landfill, and any recommended amendments of the ordinance. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1412.  FORMS, REGULATIONS AND GUIDELINES. 
	(a)	Consistent with the intent of this Chapter, and after consultation with other City departments, public notice and a public meeting, the Director may adopt forms, regulations, and guidelines as directed by this Chapter and as necessary and appropriate to implement this Chapter. 
	(b)	The Department shall provide assistance and consulting to persons subject to this Chapter regarding compliance with this Chapter. 
	(c)	The Director, consistent with this Chapter, may waive any specific requirement of this Chapter if the person seeking the waiver has demonstrated that strict application of the specific requirement would create practical difficulties not generally applicable to other persons in similar circumstances. The Director shall specify in writing the basis for any waiver under this Section. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1413.  COST OF IMPLEMENTATION. 
	The Director shall determine the cost of implementing this Chapter. The Director may request that relevant City departments provide work orders to the Director to cover the cost of implementing and maintaining the program required by this Chapter. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1414.  RESERVED. 
SEC. 1415.  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY. 
	The degree of protection required by this Chapter is considered to be reasonable for regulatory purposes. The standards set forth in this Chapter are minimal standards and do not imply that compliance will ensure proper handling of construction and demolition debris. This Chapter shall not create liability on the part of the City, or any of its officers or employees for any damages that result from reliance on this Article or any administrative decision lawfully made in accordance with this Chapter. All persons handling construction and demolition debris within the City should be and are advised to conduct their own inquiry as to the handling of such materials. In undertaking the implementation of this Chapter, the City is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officer and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1416.  DUTIES ARE DISCRETIONARY. 
	Subject to the limitations of due process and applicable requirements of State or federal laws, and notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code whenever the words "shall" or "must" are used in establishing a responsibility or duty of the City, its elected or appointed officers, employees or agents, it is the legislative intent that such words establish a discretionary responsibility or duty requiring the exercise of judgement and discretion. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
SEC. 1417.  SEVERABILITY. 
	If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Chapter is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the Chapter. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed this Chapter and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard to whether any portion of this Chapter would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional. 
(Added by Ord. 27-06, File No. 051142, App. 2/16/2006) 
CHAPTER 15:
GREEN BUSINESS PROGRAM 
Sec. 1500.Findings.Sec. 1501.Green Business Program.Sec. 1502.Regulations.Sec. 1503.Notice.Sec. 1504.Disclaimer.Sec. 1505.Penalties. 
SEC. 1500.  FINDINGS. 
	The Board of Supervisors and Mayor of the City and County of San Francisco wish to authorize the creation of a Green Business program in order for the City to encourage and recognize businesses that demonstrate environmental leadership, exceed minimum regulatory requirements and take voluntary steps to conserve natural resources and prevent pollution. 
(Added by Ord. 21-06, File No. 051818, App. 2/3/2006) 
SEC. 1501.  GREEN BUSINESS PROGRAM. 
	In compliance with this ordinance, the Department of Public Health, the Department of the Environment and the Public Utilities Commission are authorized to form a joint program to develop and implement a City-wide Green Business program to encourage and recognize businesses that: conserve the use of natural resources, such as electricity, water and fuel; reduce, reuse, recycle and compost materials; reduce the use and generation of hazardous materials and hazardous waste; and take affirmative steps to prevent pollution. The City departments shall use the Association of Bay Area Government's Bay Area Green Business Program as a model and baseline for San Francisco's Green Business program and may use more stringent standards and criteria. In developing and implementing the program, the departments shall target various business sectors operating in the City and may consult with: relevant federal, State, and regional agencies, such as the California Department of Toxic Substances Control and Bay Area Air Quality Management District; City departments that issue permits and enforce regulatory programs, including the Department of Building Inspection, the Fire Department and the Port of San Francisco; governmental land owners; and other interested entities such as the Association of Bay Area Governments and San Francisco's Small Business Commission. Only operations in the City which are in compliance with all City contracts, City-issued permits and laws; and are in compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations are eligible to participate in the program. A Green Business recognition will be valid for up to one year from issuance and may be extended for up to two additional years based on self-certification of continuing qualification by the business. At the end of the qualification period, the business must reapply. A Green Business recognition automatically terminates upon a change in ownership or if the business ceases operation at that location. In coordination with and on behalf of the participating departments, the decision of the Director of the Department of the Environment on whether a business qualifies as a Green Business shall be final. 
(Added by Ord. 21-06, File No. 051818, App. 2/3/2006) 
SEC. 1502.  REGULATIONS. 
	In coordination with and on behalf of the participating departments, the Director of the Department of the Environment, after a public hearing, shall adopt and may amend guidelines, rules, regulations and forms to implement a Green Business recognition program for various business sectors, including the application process, eligibility criteria and qualification as a Green Business. Eligibility and qualifications shall include, without limitation, thresholds and standards for: recycling and waste reduction; energy conservation; water conservation; and pollution prevention in light of feasible resources and technologies. Prior to adoption or amendment of guidelines, rules or regulations, the Director of Public Health shall certify to the Director of the Department of the Environment that the guidelines, rules or regulations are consistent with local, state and federal environmental and health regulations and with the Department of Public Health's environmental and health objectives. The participating departments shall review eligibility and qualification criteria at least once every other year and the Director of the Department of the Environment shall amend the regulations as necessary. 
(Added by Ord. 21-06, File No. 051818, App. 2/3/2006) 
SEC. 1503.  NOTICE. 
	The Director of the Department of the Environment shall conduct outreach to all businesses that are eligible to participate in programs established under this Chapter and shall afford all eligible businesses the same opportunities to participate in the program. The Director of the Department of the Environment shall periodically post a list of Green Businesses on its website. 
(Added by Ord. 21-06, File No. 051818, App. 2/3/2006) 
SEC. 1504.  DISCLAIMER. 
	Recognition by the City of a business as a Green Business shall not be construed as an endorsement by the City of the business or confer any legal right or privilege to the business. The participating departments may discontinue any program established under this Chapter at any time. 
(Added by Ord. 21-06, File No. 051818, App. 2/3/2006) 
SEC. 1505.  PENALTIES. 
	False or misleading statements or misrepresentations made by any person regarding a business's eligibility or qualifications for or compliance with the Green Business program is a violation of this Chapter and is subject to an administrative penalty up to $500 per violation in addition to any other available remedies. In coordination with and on behalf of the participating departments, whenever the Director of the Department of the Environment finds that information in a business's application or any required submission is inaccurate or misleading or a business that has a Green Business recognition is violating or has violated the terms of the Green Business program eligibility or qualifications, the Director may revoke that business's recognition as a Green Business, which revocation shall be final. 
(Added by Ord. 21-06, File No. 051818, App. 2/3/2006) 
CHAPTER 16:
FOOD SERVICE WASTE REDUCTION ORDINANCE 
Sec. 1601.Title. Sec. 1602.Definitions. Sec. 1603.Prohibited Disposable Food Service Ware. Sec. 1604.Required Biodegradable/Compostable or Recyclable Disposable Food Service Ware. Sec. 1605. Implementation; City Contracts and Leases.Sec. 1606.Enforcement and Penalties. Sec. 1607.Report to the Board of Supervisors. Sec. 1608.Operative Date. Sec. 1609.Severability. Sec. 1610.No conflict With Federal or State Law. Sec. 1611.Undertaking for the General Welfare. 
SEC. 1601.  TITLE. 
	This Ordinance shall be known as the Food Service Waste Reduction Ordinance. 
(Ord. 29506, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/2006) 
SEC. 1602.  DEFINITIONS. 
	(a)	"Affordable" means purchasable for not more than 15 percent more than the purchase cost of the non-Biodegradable non-Compostable or non-recyclable alternative(s). 
	(b)	"ASTM Standard" means meeting the standards of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) International Standards D6400 or D6868 for biodegradable and compostable plastics, as those standards may be amended. 
	(c)	"Compostable" means all the materials in the product or package will break down into, or otherwise become part of, usable compost (e.g., soil-conditioning material, mulch) in a safe and timely manner in San Francisco's Composting Program. Compostable Disposable Food Service Ware must meet ASTM-Standards for compostability and any bio-plastic or plastic like product must be clearly labeled, preferably with a color symbol, to allow proper identification such that San Francisco's compost collector and processor can easily distinguish the ASTM Standard Compostable plastic from non-ASTM Standard Compostable plastic. For the purposes of this ordinance the term biodegradable shall have the same meaning as compostable. This ordinance uses the terms biodegradable and compostable interchangeably and in all cases whether the terms are used separately, in the disjunctive or in the conjunctive they shall always be interpreted and applied consistent with this definition of the term "compostable". 
	(d)	"City Administrator" means the City Administrator appointed under Section 3.104 of the Charter or his or her designee. 
	(e)	"City contractors and lessees" means any person or entity that has a contract with the City for public works or improvements to be performed, for a franchise, concession or lease of property, for grant monies or goods and services or supplies to be purchased at the expense of the City and County, or to be paid out of monies deposited in the Treasury or out of trust monies under the control or collected by the City and County. 
	(f)	"City Facility" means any building, structure or vehicle owned or operated by the City of San Francisco. 
	(g)	"City Facility Food Provider" means an entity that provides, but does not sell, Prepared Food in City Facilities, including without limitation, San Francisco General Hospital, Laguna Honda Hospital, San Francisco County Jail and the San Bruno Jail Complex. 
	(h)	"Disposable Food Service Ware" means all containers, bowls, plates, trays, carton, cups, lids, straws, forks, spoons, knives, napkins and other items that are designed for one-time use for Prepared Foods, including without limitation, service ware for takeout foods and/or leftovers from partially consumed meals prepared by Food Vendors. The term "Disposable Food Service Ware" does not include items composed entirely of aluminum or polystyrene foam coolers and ice chests that are intended for reuse. 
	(i)	"Food Vendor" means any Restaurant or Retail Food Vendor located or operating within the City and County of San Francisco. 
	(j)	"Person" means an individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation including a government corporation, partnership, or association. 
	(k)	"Polystyrene Foam" means blown polystyrene and expanded and extruded foams (sometimes called StyrofoamTM) which are thermoplastic petrochemical materials utilizing a styrene monomer and processed by any number of techniques including, but not limited to, fusion of polymer spheres (expandable bead polystyrene), injection molding, foam molding, and extrusion-blown molding (extruded foam polystyrene). Polystyrene foam is generally used to make cups, bowls, plates, trays, clamshell containers, meat trays and egg cartons. 
	(l)	"Prepared Food" means food or beverages, which are serviced, packaged, cooked, chopped, sliced, mixed, brewed, frozen, squeezed or otherwise prepared (collectively "prepared") within the City and County of San Francisco for individual customers or consumers. For the purpose of this Chapter, Prepared Food includes take-out food, but does not include raw, butchered meats, fish and/or poultry sold from a butcher case or similar retail appliance. 
	(m)	"Recyclable" means material that can be sorted, cleansed, and reconstituted using San Francisco's available recycling collection programs for the purpose of using the altered form in the manufacture of a new product. Recycling does not include burning, incinerating, converting, or otherwise thermally destroying solid waste. 
	(n)	"Restaurant" means any establishment located within the City and County of San Francisco that sells Prepared Food for consumption on, near, or off its premises. For purposes of this Chapter, the term includes a Restaurant operating from a temporary facility, cart, vehicle or mobile unit. 
	(o)	"Retail Food Vendor" means any store, shop, sales outlet, or other establishment, including a grocery store or a delicatessen, other than a Restaurant, located within the City and County of San Francisco that sells Prepared Food. 
(Ord. 295-06, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/2006) 
SEC. 1603.  PROHIBITED DISPOSABLE FOOD SERVICE WARE. 
	(a)	Food Vendors may not sell Prepared Food in Disposable Food Service Ware that contains Polystyrene Foam. 
	(b)	City Facility Food Providers may not provide Prepared Food in Disposable Food Service Ware that contains Polystyrene Foam. 
	(c)	City Departments may not purchase, acquire or use Disposable Food Service Ware that contains Polystyrene Foam. 
	(d)	City contractors and lessees may not use Disposable Food Service Ware that contains Polystyrene Foam in City Facilities and while performing under a City contract or lease. 
(Ord. 295-06, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/2006) 
SEC. 1604.  REQUIRED BIODEGRADABLE/COMPOSTABLE OR RECYCLABLE DISPOSABLE FOOD SERVICE WARE. 
	(a)	All Food Vendors using any Disposable Food Service Ware shall use a suitable Affordable alternative Biodegradable/Compostable or Recyclable product, unless there is no suitable Affordable Biodegradable/Compostable or Recyclable product available as determined by the City Administrator in accordance with this subsection. Not later than 30 days before the operative date of this Chapter, and after a public hearing, the City Administrator shall adopt a list of available suitable Affordable Biodegradable/ Compostable or Recyclable alternatives for each product type. The City Administrator shall regularly update the list. 
	(b)	All City Facility Food Providers and City departments using any Disposable Food Service Ware shall use Biodegradable/Compostable or Recyclable Disposable Food Service Ware unless there is no Affordable Biodegradable or Compostable product available as determined by the City Administrator in accordance with Subsection 1604(a). 
	(c)	City contractors and lessees using any Disposable Food Service Ware shall use suitable Biodegradable/Compostable or Recyclable Disposable Food Service Ware in City Facilities and while performing under a City contract or lease unless there is no suitable Affordable Biodegradable/Compostable or recyclable product available as determined by the City Administrator in accordance with Subsection 1604(a). 
(Ord. 295-06, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/2006) 
SEC. 1605.  IMPLEMENTATION; CITY CONTRACTS AND LEASES. 
	(a)	The City Administrator is authorized to promulgate regulations, guidelines and forms and to take any and all other actions reasonable and necessary to implement and enforce this Chapter. 
	(b)	Any person may seek a waiver from the requirements of Section 1604 of this Chapter by filing a request on a form specified by the City Administrator. The City Administrator, consistent with this Chapter, may waive any specific requirement of this Chapter for a period of up to one year if the person seeking the waiver has demonstrated that strict application of the specific requirement would create an undue hardship or practical difficulty not generally applicable to other persons in similar circumstances. The City Administrator's decision to grant or deny a waiver shall be in writing and shall be final. 
	(c)	All City contracts and leases, including without limitation, contracts with City Facility Food Providers, shall contain the following minimum language: "Contractor agrees to comply fully with and be bound by all of the provisions of the Food Service Waste Reduction Ordinance, as set forth in San Francisco Environment Code Chapter 16, including the remedies provided, and implementing guidelines and rules. The provisions of Chapter 16 are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this agreement as though fully set forth. This provision is a material term of this agreement. By entering into this agreement, contractor agrees that if it breaches this provision, City will suffer actual damages that will be impractical or extremely difficult to determine; further, Contractor agrees that the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) liquidated damages for the first breach, two hundred dollars ($200.00) liquidated damages for the second breach in the same year, and five hundred dollars ($500.00) liquidated damages for-subsequent breaches in the same year is a reasonable estimate of the damage that City will incur based on the violation, established in light of the circumstances existing at the time this agreement was made. Such amounts shall not be considered a penalty, but rather agreed monetary damages sustained by City because of contractor's failure to comply with this provision." 
(Ord. 295-06, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/ 2006) 
SEC. 1606.  ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES. 
	(a)	The City Administrator shall issue a written warning to any person he or she determines is violating Sections 1603(a) or 1604(a) of this Chapter. If after issuing a written warning of violation from the City Administrator, the City Administrator finds that person continues to violate the provisions of Sections 1603(a) or 1604(a), the City Administrator may apply for or impose the various sanctions provided in this Section. 
	(b)	Any person who violates the provisions of Sections 1603(a) or 1604(a) of this Chapter shall be guilty of an infraction. If charged as an infraction, upon conviction thereof, said person shall be punished for the first offense by a fine of not more than $100.00 for a first violation; not more than $200.00 for a second violation in the same year and not more than $250.00 for each subsequent violation in the same year. 
	(c)	The City Administrator may issue an administrative civil liability citation to such person in an amount not exceeding $100.00 for the first violation, an amount not exceeding $200.00 for the second violation in the same year, and an amount not exceeding $500.00 for each subsequent violation in the same year. In determining administrative civil penalties, the City Administrator shall consider the extent of harm caused by the violation, the nature and persistence of the violation, the length of time over which the violation occurs, the frequency of past violations, any action taken to mitigate the violation, and the financial burden to the violator. 
		Any person to whom the City Administrator issues a written warning of violation or an administrative civil liability citation may request an administrative hearing to appeal such warning or determination of liability. Not later than 30 days before the operative date of this Chapter, and after a public hearing, the City Administrator shall promulgate rules and procedures for requesting and conducting an administrative hearing under this Chapter. In any administrative hearing under this Article, all parties involved shall have the right to offer testimonial, documentary, and tangible evidence bearing on the issues, to see and copy all documents and other information the City relies on in the proceeding, and to confront and cross-examine any witnesses against them. A decision by the hearing officer shall be final. Any person assessed a penalty under this subsection may contest such decision to the Superior Court within 20 days after service of the City's decision. 
	(d)	The City Attorney may seek legal, injunctive, or other equitable relief to enforce this Chapter, including without limitation, civil penalties in an amount not exceeding $100.00 for the first violation, $200.00 for the second violation, and $250.00 for each subsequent violation in any given year. 
	(e)	The City may not recover both administrative and civil penalties pursuant to Subsections (c) and (d) of this Section for the same violation. Penalties collected under Subsections (c) and (d) of this Section, which may include recovery of enforcement costs, shall be used to fund implementation and enforcement of this Chapter. 
(Ord. 295-06, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/2006) 
SEC. 1607.  REPORT TO THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. 
	No later than June 1, 2008, the Director of the Department of the Environment, in consultation with the City Administrator and with input from members of the public, shall submit to the Board of Supervisors a report recommending changes, if any, to this Chapter, including whether the ban imposed by this Chapter should be extended to other products, as supported by the report. If the Director recommends banning additional products, the report must include an estimate of the costs and benefits of compliance with a ban on additional products, including the increased costs to the City as well as to the City's food service industry. 
(Ord. 295-06, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/2006) 
SEC. 1608.  OPERATIVE DATE. 
	This ordinance shall become operative on June 1, 2007. 
(Ord. 295-06, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/2006) 
SEC. 1609.  SEVERABILITY. 
	If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Chapter is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the Chapter. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed this Chapter and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard to whether any portion of this Chapter would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional. 
(Ord. 295-06, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/ 2006) 
SEC. 1610.  NO CONFLICT WITH FEDERAL OR STATE LAW. 
	Nothing in this Ordinance shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any requirement, power or duty in conflict with any federal or state law. 
(Ord. 295-06, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/2006) 
SEC. 1611.  UNDERTAKING FOR THE GENERAL WELFARE. 
	In undertaking the implementation of this Chapter, the City is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officer and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. 
(Ord. 295-06, File No. 060944, App. 11/29/ 2006) 
CHAPTER 17:
PLASTIC BAG REDUCTION ORDINANCE 
Sec. 1701.Short Title. Sec. 1702.Definitions. Sec. 1703.Mandatory Use of Recyclable and Compostable Checkout Bags. Sec. 1703.5.Checkout Bag Charge.Sec. 1704.Outreach and Implementation. Sec. 1705.Enforcement and Penalties. Sec. 1706.Operative Date. Sec. 1707.Severability. Sec. 1708.No Conflict with Federal or State Law. Sec. 1709.Undertaking for the General Welfare. 
SEC. 1701.  SHORT TITLE. 
	This Ordinance shall be entitled the "Plastic Bag Reduction Ordinance." 
(Added by Ord. 8107, File No. 070085, App. 4/20/2007) 
SEC. 1702.  DEFINITIONS. 
	For the purposes of this Ordinance, the following words shall have the following meanings:
	(a)	"ASTM Standard" means the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)'s Standard Specification for Compostable Plastics D6400, as that standard may be amended from time to time.
	(b)	"Compostable Plastic Bag" means a plastic Checkout Bag that conforms to at least the minimum standards of California labeling law (Public Resources Code Section 42355 et seq.), and meets current ASTM D6400 Standard Specifications for compostability, is labeled as meeting the ASTM Standard by a recognized third-party independent verification entity, such as the Biodegradable Product Institute, and is labeled "Compostable" on both sides of the bag either in green color lettering that is at least one inch in height, or as otherwise specified, or within a green color band that is at least one inch in height in order to be readily and easily identifiable.
	(c)	"Checkout Bag" means a carryout bag that is provided by a store to a customer. "Checkout Bag" does not include:
		(1)	Bags used to: 
			(A)	package loose bulk items, such as fruit, vegetables, nuts, grains, candy, cookies, or small hardware items;
			(B)	contain or wrap frozen foods, meat, or fish, whether prepackaged or not;
			(C)	contain or wrap flowers, potted plants, or other items where damage to a good or contamination of other goods placed together in the same bag may be a problem; or
			(D)	contain unwrapped prepared foods or bakery goods; 
		(2)	Bags provided by pharmacists to contain prescription drugs; or,
		(3)	Newspaper bags, door-hanger bags, laundry-dry cleaning bags, or bags sold in packages containing multiple bags intended for use as garbage, pet waste, or yard waste bags.
	(d)	"Department" means the Department of the Environment.
	(e)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of the Environment.
	(f)	"Food Establishment" means a "food preparation and service establishment" as defined in Health Code Section 451 and permitted under Health Code Section 452.
	(g)	"Person" means an individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation, cooperative, partnership, or association.
	(h)	"Recyclable" means material that can be sorted, cleansed, and reconstituted using San Francisco's available recycling collection programs for the purpose of using the altered form in the manufacture of a new product. Recycling does not include burning, incinerating, converting, or otherwise thermally destroying solid waste.
	(i)	"Recyclable Paper Bag" means a paper Checkout Bag that meets all of the following requirements:
		(1)	is 100% recyclable, using the standards for San Francisco's available curbside recycling collection program;
		(2)	contains no old growth fiber;
		(3)	contains a minimum of 40% post-consumer recycled content, and the Department may modify the requirements for recycled content by regulation adopted after a public hearing and at least 60 days' notice, based upon environmental benefit, cost, and market availability; and
		(4)	displays the word "Recyclable" in a highly visible manner on the outside of the bag, and is labeled with the name of the manufacturer, the location (country) where manufactured, and the percentage of post-consumer recycled content in an easy-to-read size font.
	(j)	"Reusable Bag" means a Checkout Bag with handles that is specifically designed and manufactured for multiple reuse and meets all of the following requirements:
		(1)	Has a minimum lifetime capability of 125 or more uses carrying 22 or more pounds over a distance of at least 175 feet;
		(2)	Is capable of being washed so as to be cleaned and disinfected at least 100 times; 
		(3)	If made of plastic, is at least 2.25 mils thick;
		(4)	Meets the standards of the California Toxics in Packaging Prevention Act (Cal. Health & Safety Code §§ 25214.11-25214.26), as amended, or any successor legislation; 
		(5)	Meets any standards for minimum recycled content established by regulation adopted by the Department after a public hearing and at least 60 days' notice, based upon environmental benefit and market availability.
		(6)	Garment bags that meet the above criteria shall be considered reusable even if they do not have handles.
	(k)	"Store" means the following:
		(1)	Until July 1, 2013, "Store" shall mean a retail establishment located within the geographical limits of the City and the County of San Francisco. A "retail establishment" includes any public commercial establishment engaged in the sale of personal consumer or household items to the customers who will use or consume such items.
		(2)	Beginning July 1, 2013, "Store" shall also include any Food Establishment located within the geographical limits of the City and County of San Francisco.
(Added by Ord. 81-07, File No. 070085, App. 4/20/2007; amended by Ord. 33-12, File No. 101055, App. 2/21/2012, Eff. 3/22/2012, Oper. 10/1/12) 
SEC. 1703.  MANDATORY USE OF RECYCLABLE AND COMPOSTABLE CHECKOUT BAGS. 
	(a)	All Stores shall provide only the following as checkout bags to customers; recyclable paper bags, and/or compostable plastic bags, and/or reusable bags. 
	(b)	Violation of the requirements set forth in subsection (a) shall subject a Store to penalties set forth in Section 1705. 
	(c)	Nothing in this section shall be read to preclude Stores from making reusable bags available for sale to customers. 
(Added by Ord. 81-07, File No. 070085, App. 4/20/2007) 
SEC. 1703.5.  CHECKOUT BAG CHARGE.
	(a)	Imposing a Checkout Bag Charge.
		(1)	Beginning October 1, 2012, no Store shall provide a Recyclable Paper Bag or Reusable Bag to a customer at the point of sale, unless the Store charges the customer a Checkout Bag Charge of at least ten cents ($0.10) per bag.
		(2)	Beginning October 1, 2013, no Store, including a Food Establishment, shall provide a Compostable Plastic Bag to a customer at the point of sale, unless the Store charges the customer a Checkout Bag Charge of at least ten cents ($0.10) per bag.
		(3)	No Food Establishment shall be required to charge its customers a Checkout Bag Charge for a bag provided for a customer's left-over food from sit-down restaurant dining.
	(b)	Controller's Report.  After January 2013, and not later than January 2014, the Controller shall perform an assessment and review of the economic impacts on businesses, both large and small, of the 10 cent Checkout Bag Charge. Based on such assessment and review, the Controller shall submit an analysis to the Board of Supervisors. The analysis shall be based on criteria deemed relevant by the Controller, but should include a survey of whether and how the Checkout Bag Charge specifically has impacted businesses' profits and losses.
	(c)	Checkout Bag Charge to be Separately Stated on Receipt.  The amount charged pursuant to subsection (a) shall be separately stated on the receipt provided to the customer at the time of sale and shall be identified as a the Checkout Bag Charge. Any other transaction fee charged by the Store in relation to providing a Checkout Bag shall be identified separately from the Checkout Bag Charge.
	(d)	Exemptions.
		(1)	A Store shall not charge the Checkout Bag Charge required under subsection (a) where providing a Checkout Bag to a customer as part of a transaction paid for in whole or in part through the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children (Article 2 (commencing with Section 123275) of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 106 of the Health and Safety Code), or the State Department of Social Services Food Stamp Program.
		(2)	A Store shall not charge the Checkout Bag Charge required under subsection (a) for a Reusable Bag which meets the requirements of this Chapter and which is distributed to a customer without charge during a limited duration promotional event, not to exceed 12 days per year.
	(e)	Waivers. Any owner or operator of a Store may petition the Director of the Department of the Environment for a full or partial waiver of the requirements of this Section, for a period of up to one year, if the owner or operator can
		(1)	demonstrate that application of this Section would create undue hardship or practical difficulty for the Store not generally applicable to other stores in similar circumstances, or
		(2)	establish that the business as a whole cannot, under the terms of this Section, generate a return that is commensurate with returns on investments in other enterprises having corresponding risks and is sufficient to attract capital.
	(f)	Violations. Violations of this Section may be punished under the provisions of Section 1705. Collection of the Checkout Bag Charge shall not excuse any violation of any other provisions of this Chapter 17.
(Added by Ord. 33-12, File No. 101055, App. 2/21/2012, Eff. 3/22/2012, Oper. 10/1/12)
SEC. 1704.  OUTREACH AND IMPLEMENTATION. 
	The Department's responsibilities for implementing this Chapter include conducting outreach to stores, providing multi-lingual information to educate store employees and customers, and making available lists of vendors who sell Recyclable Paper, Compostable Plastic, or Reusable Bags.
	The Director, after a public hearing, may adopt and may amend guidelines, rules, regulations and forms to implement this Chapter.
 (Added by Ord. 81-07, File No. 070085, App. 4/20/2007; amended by Ord. 33-12, File No. 101055, App. 2/21/2012, Eff. 3/22/2012, Oper. 10/1/12) 
SEC. 1705.  ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES. 
	(a)	Any person who violates this Ordinance shall be guilty of an infraction. If charged as an infraction, upon conviction thereof, said person shall be punished by 
		(1)	a fine not exceeding $100.00 for a first violation, 
		(2)	a fine not exceeding $200.00 for a second violation within the same year, and 
		(3)	a fine not exceeding $500.00 for each additional violation within the same year. 
	(b)	In the event that the City adopts an ordinance creating a procedure for the City Administrator to impose and review Administrative Penalties pursuant to California Government Code Section 53069.4, the City may impose Administrative Penalties for violation of this Ordinance as follows: 
		(1)	in an amount not exceeding $100.00 for the first violation, 
		(2)	in an amount not exceeding $200.00 for the second violation in the same year, and 
		(3)	in an amount not exceeding $500.00 for each subsequent violation in the same year. 
	(c)	The City Attorney may seek legal, injunctive, or other equitable relief to enforce this Ordinance, including without limitation, civil penalties in an amount not exceeding $200.00 for the first violation, $400.00 for the second violation, and $600.00 for each subsequent violation in any given year. 
	(d)	The City may not recover both administrative and civil penalties for the same violation. 
(Added by Ord. 81-07, File No. 070085, App. 4/20/2007) 
SEC. 1706.  OPERATIVE DATE. 
	All of the requirements set forth in this Ordinance shall become operative as to Stores that are supermarkets six (6) months after its effective date. All of the requirements set forth in this Ordinance shall become operative as to Stores that are pharmacies one (1) year after its effective date. 
(Added by Ord. 81-07, File No. 070085, App. 4/20/2007) 
SEC. 1707.  SEVERABILITY. 
	If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the Ordinance. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed this Ordinance and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard to whether any portion of this Ordinance would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional. 
(Added by Ord. 81-07, File No. 070085, App. 4/20/2007) 
SEC. 1708.  NO CONFLICT WITH FEDERAL OR STATE LAW. 
	Nothing in this Ordinance shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any requirement, power or duty in conflict with any federal or state law. 
(Added by Ord. 81-07, File No. 070085, App. 4/20/2007) 
SEC. 1709.  UNDERTAKING FOR THE GENERAL WELFARE. 
	In undertaking the implementation of this Ordinance, the City is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officer and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. 
(Added by Ord. 81-07, File No. 070085, App. 4/20/2007) 
CHAPTER 18:
SOLAR ENERGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM 
Sec. 18.1.Findings. Sec. 18.2.Incentive Payments. Sec. 18.3.Types of Systems Eligible for Assistance. Sec. 18.4.Limits on Amounts of Assistance. Sec. 18.5. Allocation of Program Funding Among Types of Buildings.Sec. 18.6.Program Administration. Sec. 18.7.Solar Energy Incentive Pilot Program. 
SEC. 18.1.  FINDINGS. 
	A.	Over the past year the San Francisco Solar Task Force (the "Solar Task Force") was convened by Assessor-Recorder Phil Ting to provide analysis and policy proposals on how best to increase the development of solar energy in San Francisco. 
	B.	The Solar Task Force report noted recent California Energy Commission data that show that average cost per kilowatt of solar energy installed in San Francisco is currently above the average cost of seven surrounding Bay Area counties. 
	C.	According to data collected from the California Energy Commission and the California Public Utilities Commission, San Francisco now ranks last in the Bay Area in terms of the solar energy installed per capita. 
	D.	The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission (the "SFPUC") serves 16 percent of the City's electrical demand, electric service providers serve 8 percent and Pacific Gas & Electric serves the remaining 76 percent. The SFPUC has installed 2 megawatts of solar generating capacity as well as 4 megawatts of methane gas cogeneration capacity, which projects have bolstered the in-City renewable energy portfolio. In addition, the SFPUC is supplementing its renewable energy generation portfolio with 25 MW of purchased geothermal generation. 
	E.	The SFPUC is currently undertaking the development of additional large scale renewable energy generation assets within the City with the objectives of expanding and diversifying the renewable energy resources available to City departments and other SFPUC customers, boosting the City's clean energy industry and improving overall in-City energy reliability. However, there is a need for further initiatives to stimulate the growth in the City's supply of renewable energy. 
	F.	The SFPUC is pursuing the establishment of Community Choice Aggregation ("CCA") within the City. Implementation of CCA will allow the SFPUC to partner with private enterprise, leverage the purchasing power of a wider customer base and access the capital markets on a broader scale in order to expand its renewable energy generation asset portfolio. 
	G.	The Solar Task Force recommended implementation of a Solar Energy Incentive Program as one method to address this cost trend, in that an increase in private demand combined with appropriate measures to attract investment in the City's solar manufacturing and installation industries over the long term could reduce the overall cost of solar energy as costs of importing such manufacturing technology and installation expertise are reduced or eliminated and economies of scale are introduced to the in-City solar industry. 
	H.	A successful solar incentive program would increase the installation of solar power, thus providing greater supply during peak demand times during the day and improving the reliability of in-City generation capacity using clean solar energy. 
	I.	The development of a more efficient and cost-effective in-City solar manufacturing and installation industry over the long term would result in savings for the SFPUC's solar projects.
	J.	The City has established a goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2012. 
	K.	In view of the City's objectives in addressing the challenge of climate change, the positive benefits for the City's overall power consumption market and the particular benefits for the SF-PUC's Power Enterprise, the SFPUC intends to allocate certain power revenues previously budgeted to renewable energy development and energy efficiency projects towards funding the implementation of the solar incentive program described in this Chapter, with the objective of providing an appropriation of $2 million to $5 million annually over the ten years commencing with fiscal year 2008-2009. 
	L.	The City and the SFPUC intend this program to complement the SFPUC's renewable energy capital programs, including CCA, by attracting additional investment that will expand the development of renewable energy within the City and will spread the costs and risks of that development across a more diverse range of stakeholders. 
	M.	As a complement to this initiative the SFPUC, the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors intend to pursue the establishment of a stable rate structure for all of the SFPUC's power customers, which would enable the SFPUC to become a creditworthy bond issuer and to finance the City's own renewable energy development projects on a more advantageous tax-exempt basis. 
(Added by Ord. 102-08, File No. 071679, App. 6/18/2008) 
SEC. 18.2.  INCENTIVE PAYMENTS. 
	(a)	The Program Administrator shall make incentive payments to applicants in respect of solar systems installed by qualifying applicants on the basis of the provisions of this Chapter, from the funds appropriated to the program from time to time. 
	(b)	Applicants must be the owner of the system to be eligible to receive the incentive. 
	(c)	To be eligible for the incentive, a system must be installed by an individual, firm or organization qualified as a workforce development installer by the Office of Economic and Workforce Development, unless subsection (d) applies. The Office of Economic and Workforce Development, which directs the City's overall workforce development efforts, will be responsible for developing and ensuring compliance with workforce criteria for the incentive payments. 
	(d)	Subsection (c)	does not apply if the individual, firm or organization installing the system: 
		(i)	is a non-profit installer of solar generation systems; 
		(ii)	employees a total of three employees or less, is a state-licensed contractor and has is principal office or offices within the boundaries of the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 102-08, File No. 071679, App. 6/18/2008; Ord. 109-10, File No. 100048, App. 5/27/2010) 
SEC. 18.3.  TYPES OF SYSTEMS ELIGIBLE FOR ASSISTANCE. 
	(a)	Photovoltaic panel systems. Photo-voltaic panel systems that produce electricity from sunlight, installed on single and multifamily residential, commercial, and industrial buildings, with generating capacity of at least one (1) kilowatt are eligible for assistance under this program. 
	(b)	Other systems. The Program Administrator may extend program eligibility to other types of customer-owned distributed renewable energy generation systems, so long as such an extension is accompanied by publication of criteria for allocating incentive payments for such purpose and the limits on such incentives. Such an extension must be accompanied by analysis demonstrating that the projected positive market effects of the incentive on the in-City market for the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency are comparable to those attributes of the photovoltaic panel program. 
	(c)	No limit on generating capacity. There shall be no maximum generating capacity limitation on systems that are eligible for the incentive. 
(Added by Ord. 102-08, File No. 071679, App. 6/18/2008; Ord. 42-09, File No. 090100, App. 4/2/2009) 
SEC. 18.4.  LIMITS ON AMOUNTS OF ASSISTANCE. 
	(a)	Limits for all types of systems. No applicant may receive assistance in excess of the cost to design, purchase and install the system, net of incentives, rebates, tax credits or other payments received from other governmental entities. 
	(b)	Limits for photovoltaic panel systems for residential property. 
		(i)	Except as further provided in this clause (b), no residential applicant may receive assistance in excess of $3,000 toward the cost to design, purchase and install photovoltaic panels. If the property is a multifamily residential project, the applicant may apply for and receive an incentive payment corresponding to each electricity meter served by the system, so long as the system provides each such electricity meter with a generating capacity of at least one kilowatt or financial credits that result from a generating capacity of at least one kilowatt from the energy generation system. 
		(ii)	The limit of assistance shall be $5,000 for applicants residing in an Environmental Justice District, as such district or districts are determined by the Program Administrator, or for applicants that are recipients of the California Public Utilities Commission's CARE (California Alternative Rates for Energy) rates that provide rate discounts for qualified low or fixed income households, or for building owners that are recipients of the California Department of Housing and Community Development's CalHome loan program, which provides low-interest, deferred rehabilitation loans to low-income homeowners. 
		(iii)	CARE and CalHome participants or participants in the CPUC Low Income program under CSI, as well as households with incomes that are certified by the Mayor's Office of Housing pursuant to Section 18.7-5, shall be eligible for an additional $5,000 if the application for the low income incentive is received before February 1, 2009. 
		(iv)	CARE and CalHome participants or participants in the CPUC Low Income program under the CSI, as well as households with incomes that are certified by the Mayor's Office of Housing pursuant to Section 18.7-5, shall be eligible for an additional $7,000 if the application for the low income incentive is received by the Program Administrator on or after February 1, 2009. 
		(v)	An incentive applicant whose system is installed by an individual, firm or organization whose principal office or offices are located within the City shall be eligible for an additional incentive up to $1,000, subject to the limitations of Section 18.3. If in implementing the program the Program Administrator determines that the incentive identified in this paragraph does not provide the intended stimulus for the in-City installation industry, then the Program Administrator may amend the terms of this incentive to make it more effective in achieving the in-City job creation and installation market objectives of the program. 
	(c)	Limits for photovoltaic panel systems for commercial, industrial or manufacturing property. No applicant may receive assistance in excess of $1,500 per kilowatt of electric power a photovoltaic panel system is designed to generate. Regardless of system generating capacity, no applicant may receive assistance in excess of $10,000. 
	(d)	Adjustments in limits. 
		(i)	The Program Administrator may adjust limits on the incentives paid for systems installed on commercial, industrial or manufacturing property upon a finding that such an adjustment advances the objectives of the program. Such adjustments may include an increase in the limit on the incentive paid in respect of (A) systems installed within an Environmental Justice District or (B) systems installed by an individual, firm or organization with an office or offices within the City (or bearing some other linkage to the in-City installation market as deemed appropriate by the Program Administrator). 
		(ii)	Upon a demonstration of a reduction in average costs of solar improvements, including but not limited to an increase in incentives, rebates, tax credits or other payments provided by other government entities that serve to reduce the system costs borne by the consumer, the SFPUC shall have the discretion to decrease the limits set forth above by an amount reflective of the reduced need for the incentive payments. 
		(iii)	With the concurrence of the Board of Supervisors, the Program Administrator may increase any of the limits set forth in this Section in connection with efforts to stimulate the development of a competitive in-City solar market, such as the establishment of an in-City photovoltaic panel production facility. 
(Added by Ord. 102-08, File No. 071679, App. 6/18/2008; Ord. 42-09, File No. 090100, App. 4/2/2009; Ord. 10910, File No. 100048, App. 5/27/2010) 
SEC. 18.5.  ALLOCATION OF PROGRAM FUNDING AMONG TYPES OF BUILDINGS. 
	For each year of this program, available funds shall be allocated on a first come, first served basis regardless of the type of applicant. 
(Added by Ord. 102-08, File No. 071679, App. 6/18/2008) 
SEC. 18.6.  PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION. 
	(a)	The program will be administered by the Program Administrator, which shall be the SFPUC, acting by and through its Power Enterprise. SFPUC shall coordinate administration of the Solar Energy Incentive Program with the implementation and administration of CCA to maximize its efficiency in achieving the renewable energy expansion goals contemplated under CCA. 
	(b)	The Program Administrator shall develop rules and application procedures. 
	(c)	The Program Administrator shall establish reasonable eligibility criteria for the incentive payments so that the program is available to all applicants within the City regardless of their customer relationship with any particular electric service provider. For ease of administration these criteria shall be deemed satisfied when an applicant provides appropriate evidence that the applicant is entitled to payments under the California Solar Initiative as authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission and the State of California under SB1 (Chapter 132, Statutes of 2006) (as such program may be amended from time to time, the "California Solar Initiative"); provided, however, that demonstrating eligibility for the California Solar Initiative shall not be the sole means of establishing eligibility. The Program Administrator shall also establish reasonable and clear eligibility criteria for approving incentive payments to applicants who are not beneficiaries of the California Solar Initiative, which criteria shall include (but are not limited to) confirmation that the applicant has installed the system in compliance with all applicable laws, including Department of Building Inspection inspections and approvals. 
	(d)	If there are applications for assistance in excess of appropriated funds, the Program Administrator shall grant applications in the order they were filed. The Program Administrator shall develop a reservation system which will allow applicants to request that the Program Administrator reserve funds for a proposed project. Such reservation system may be patterned after that utilized by the California Solar Initiative. 
	(e)	The Program Administrator shall maintain annual program funding as identified within the SFPUC Power Enterprise budget as the Solar Energy Incentive Fund. At the end of each fiscal year, any program funds that were not expended shall be carried forward to the next fiscal year. Upon a finding as to the continuing effectiveness of the Solar Energy Incentive program in achieving its objectives such funds shall be appropriated then or thereafter for the purposes specified in this Chapter. 
	(f)	The Program Administrator shall determine and implement payment procedures for incentives under the program. Such payment procedures may include the option to make payments on applicants' behalf directly to installers or other entities. Such payments shall not be considered contracts or grants of the City for any City procedural contracting ordinances, and no requirements shall be imposed as a condition of receipt of such incentive payments aside from those specifically referenced in this ordinance and as necessary to protect the City from legal liabilities and promote the goals of this ordinance. 
	(g)	The Program Administrator shall monitor the effective costs of renewable energy system installation and other related market information for purposes of making the adjustments described in Section 18.4(d)(ii). 
	(h)	The Program Administrator shall establish boundaries for any Environmental Justice District identified for purposes of Section 18.4(b)(iii). Any such district shall satisfy the goals, objectives and definitions of environmental justice and Environmental Justice Districts, as such concepts are set forth at any given time under state and local law. 
	(i)	The Program Administrator shall submit to the Board of Supervisors a status report on the first six-months of the program, within 45 days of the end of the first six months of the program. The Program Administrator may submit an interim status report upon the exhaustion of either of the funding pools described in Section 18.7-5 and shall otherwise provide written monthly status reports. The Program Administrator shall submit to the Board of Supervisors a report evaluating the first year of program operation, within 90 days after the end of the first year. The report shall provide an analysis of the impacts of the program, including, without limitation, the number and location by district of the projects funded, the amount of energy generated by the projects, and the amount of time and money spent on program administration. The report shall evaluate the economic and other benefits of the program and provide a cost-benefit analysis. The data and analysis presented in this report shall inform future program funding, operation, and amendments. 
	(j)	In the context of funding appropriations for this program in future years, the Board of Supervisors will (i) Consider the Program Administrator's first-year report, identified in subsection 18.6 (i) above; (ii) Review and approve the Environmental Justice District boundaries established by the Program Administrator pursuant to subsection 18.6 (h); (iii) Review and approve any new or modified criteria or incentives established by the Program Administrator. 
(Added by Ord. 102-08, File No. 071679, App. 6/18/2008; Ord. 42-09, File No. 090100, App. 4/2/2009) 
SEC. 18.7.  SOLAR ENERGY INCENTIVE PILOT PROGRAM. 
Section 18.7-1. Findings. 
	A.	California has set a goal to create 3,000 megawatts (MW) of new, solar-produced electricity by 2017, moving the state toward a cleaner energy future and helping lower the cost of solar systems for consumers. 
	B.	The California Public Utilities Commission, through its California Solar Initiative (CSI), provides $2.2 Billion in incentives over the next decade for existing residential homes and existing and new commercial, industrial, and agricultural properties of which 10% will be set aside to assist installation of solar for low-income residents and affordable housing developments. 
	C.	On November 17, 2007, the CPUC adopted the CSI Single-Family Low-Income Incentive Program. The Single-Family Low-Income Incentive Program will provide incentives for solar PV systems from $4.75 to $7.00 per watt to qualifying low-income homeowners. The Program will also provide full-subsidy systems to very low-income households who financed their home through local, state and federal housing assistance programs and whose household income is at or below the 50 percent of the area median income. 
	D.	The CSI Single-Family Low-Income Program will not begin accepting applications until after a statewide Program Manager has been selected. A Request For Proposals for the CSI Single-Family Low-Income Program Manager was released on April 16th, 2008 and the final date for Proposal submission is May 28th, 2008. Once the Program Manager is selected, the Single-Family Low-Income Program will be implemented throughout the state of California and will assist applicants in determining their individual eligibility. 
	E.	Establishing a pilot program will enable the City to immediately implement this program and evaluate the effectiveness of the program and determine the best policy for allocation of public funds before deciding how or whether to continue the program. 
(Ord. 42-09, File No. 090100, App. 4/2/2009) 
Section 18.7-2. Incentive Payments. 
	(a)	A pilot program is established for a period of one-year from the date of this ordinance or until funds allocated under Section 18.7-5 are expended. The incentives paid under this program shall not exceed the amounts set forth in Section 18.7-5 below. 
	(b)	Applicants must be the owner of a system installed on or after December 11, 2007, to be eligible to receive the incentive. 
	(c)	To be eligible for the incentive, a system must be installed by an individual, firm or organization qualified as a workforce development installer by the Office of Economic and Workforce Development, unless subsection (d) applies. The Office of Economic and Workforce Development, which directs the City's overall workforce development efforts, will be responsible for developing and ensuring compliance with workforce criteria for the incentive payments. 
	(d)	Subsection (c) does not apply if the individual, firm or organization installing the system: 
		(i)	is a non-profit installer of solar generation systems; 
		(ii)	employs a total of three employees or less, is s state-license contractor and has its principal office or offices located within the boundaries of the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Ord. 42-09, File No. 090100, App. 4/2/2009; Ord. 109-10, File No. 100048, App. 5/27/2010) 
Section 18.7-3. Types of Systems Eligible for Assistance. 
	(a)	Photovoltaic panel systems. Photo-voltaic panel systems that produce electricity from sunlight, installed on residential buildings, with generating capacity of at least one (1) kilowatt are eligible for assistance under this program. 
	(b)	Other systems. The Program Administrator may extend program eligibility to customer-owned distributed renewable energy generation systems other than photovoltaic panel systems, so long as such an extension is accompanied by publication of criteria for allocating incentive payments for such purpose and the limits on such incentive. Such an extension must be accompanied by analysis demonstrating that the projected positive market effects of the incentive on the in-City market for the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency are comparable to those attributes of the photovoltaic panel program. 
	(c)	No limit on generating capacity. There shall be no maximum generating capacity limitation on systems that are eligible for the incentive. 
(Ord. 42-09, File No. 090100, App. 4/2/2009) 
Section 18.7-4. Limits on Amounts of Assistance. 
	(a)	Limits for all types of systems. No applicant may receive assistance in excess of the cost to design, purchase and install the system, net of incentives, rebates, tax credits or other payments received from other governmental entities. 
	(b)	Limits for photovoltaic panel systems. 
		(i)	Except as further provided in this clause (b), no residential applicant may receive assistance in excess of $3,000 toward the cost to design, purchase and install photovoltaic panels. If the property is a multifamily residential project, the applicant may apply for and receive an incentive payment corresponding to each electricity meter served by the system, so long as the system provides each such electricity meter with a generating capacity of at least one kilowatt or financial credits that result from a generating capacity of at least one kilowatt from the energy generation system. 
		(ii)	The limit of assistance shall be $5,000 for applicants residing in an Environmental Justice District, as such district or districts are determined by the Program Administrator, or for applicants that are recipients of the California Public Utilities Commission's CARE (California Alternative Rates for Energy) rates that provide rate discounts for qualified low or fixed income households, or for building owners that are recipients of the California Department of Housing and Community Development's CalHome loan program, which provides low-interest, deferred rehabilitation loans to low-income homeowners. 
		(iii)	CARE and CalHome participants or participants in the CPUC Low Income program under CSI, as well as households with incomes that are certified by the Mayor's Office of Housing pursuant to Section 18.7-5, shall be eligible for an additional $5,000 if the application for the low income incentive is received before February 1, 2009, subject to the limitations of Section 18.7-4(a) above. 
		(iv)	CARE and CalHome participants or participants in the CPUC Low Income program under the CSI, as well as households with incomes that are certified by the Mayor's Office of Housing pursuant to Section 18.7-5, shall be eligible for an additional $7,000 if the application for the low income incentive is received by the Program Administrator on or after February 1, 2009, subject to the limitations of Section 18.7-4(a) above. 
		(v)	An incentive applicant whose system is installed by an individual, firm or organization whose principal office or offices are located within the City shall be eligible for an additional incentive up to $1,000, subject to the limitations of Section 18.3. If in implementing the program the Program Administrator determines that the incentive identified in this paragraph does not provide the intended stimulus for the in-City installation industry, then the Program Administrator may amend the terms of this incentive to make it more effective in achieving the in-City job creation and installation market objectives of the program. 
	(c)	Limits for photovoltaic panel systems for non-residential buildings owned by non-profits and non-residential buildings occupied by non-profits and owned by governmental entities. No applicant may receive assistance in excess of $1,500 per kilowatt of electric power a photovoltaic panel system is designed to generate. 
	(d)	Limits for photovoltaic panel systems for multi-unit residential buildings that are owned and operated by non-profit organizations. No applicant may receive assistance in excess of $4,500 per kilowatt of electric power a photovoltaic panel system is designed to generate, up to a total of $150,000. An applicant may receive up to an additional $100,000 in matching funds on a dollar per dollar basis, subject to a maximum of $4,500 per kilowatt. Regardless of system generating capacity or matching funds, no applicant may receive assistance in excess of $250,000. Buildings owned by for-profit entities may be eligible for the incentive designated in this paragraph if at least 75% of the residential units, excluding a manager's unit, are designated as affordable housing units under a Federal, State, or local government restriction recorded against the property on which the building is located in a manner that maintains affordability for a term no less than 30 years. 
	(e)	Adjustments in limits. 
		(i)	If the program is continued after the one-year pilot, the Program Administrator may adjust limits on the incentives paid for systems installed on commercial, industrial or manufacturing property upon a finding that such an adjustment advances the objectives of the program. Such adjustments may include an increase in the limit on the incentive paid in respect of (A) systems installed within an Environmental Justice District or (B) systems installed by an individual, firm or organization with an office or offices within the City or bearing some other linkage to the in-City installation market as deemed appropriate by the Program Administrator). 
		(ii)	Upon a demonstration of a reduction in average costs of solar improvements, including but not limited to an increase in incentives, rebates, tax credits or other payments provided by other government entities that serve to reduce the system costs borne by the consumer, the SFPUC shall have the discretion to decrease the limits set forth above by an amount reflective of the reduced need for the incentive payments. 
		(iii)	With the concurrence of the Board of Supervisors, the Program Administrator may increase any of the limits set forth in this Section in connection with efforts to stimulate the development of a competitive in-City solar market, such as the establishment of an in-City photovoltaic panel production facility. 
(Ord. 42-09, File No. 090100, App. 4/2/2009; Ord. 109-10, File No. 100048, App. 5/27/2010) 
Section 18.7-5. Allocation of Program Funding Among Types of Buildings. 
	For this pilot program, funds shall be allocated as follows: 1,500,000 to buildings that are owned and operated by non-profit organizations or single and multifamily residential applicants that are certified by the Mayor's Office of Housing as earning at or below the San Francisco median income or CARE and CalHome participants or participants in the CPUC Low income program under CS1. 
Section 18.7-6. Program Administration. 
	(a)	The program will be administered by the Program Administrator, which shall be the SFPUC, acting by and through its Power Enterprise. SFPUC shall coordinate administration of the Solar Energy Incentive Pilot Program with the implementation and administration of CCA to maximize its efficiency in achieving the renewable energy expansion goals contemplated under CCA. 
	(b)	The Program Administrator shall develop rules and application procedures. 
	(c)	The Program Administrator shall establish reasonable eligibility criteria for the incentive payments so that the program is available to all applicants within the City regardless of their customer relationship with any particular electric service provider. For ease of administration these criteria shall be deemed satisfied when an applicant provides appropriate evidence that the applicant is entitled to payments under the California Solar Initiative as authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission and the State of California under SB1 (Chapter 132, Statutes of 2006) (as such program may be amended from time to time, the "California Solar Initiative"); provided, however, that demonstrating eligibility for the California Solar Initiative shall not be the sole means of establishing eligibility. The Program Administrator shall also establish reasonable and clear eligibility criteria for approving incentive payments to applicants who are not beneficiaries of the California Solar Initiative, which criteria shall include (but are not limited to) confirmation that the applicant has installed the system in compliance with all applicable laws, including Department of Building Inspection inspection and approvals. 
	(d)	If there are applications for assistance in excess of appropriated funds, the Program Administrator shall grant applications in the order they were filed. The Program Administrator shall develop a reservation system which will allow applicants to request that the Program Administrator reserve funds for a proposed project. Such reservation system may be patterned after that utilized by the California Solar Initiative. 
	(e)	The Program Administrator shall determine and implement payment procedures for incentives under the program. Such payment procedures may include the option to make payments on applicants' behalf directly to installers or other entities. Such payments shall not be considered contracts or grants of the City for any City procedural contracting ordinances, and no requirements shall be imposed as a condition of receipt of such incentive payments aside from those specifically referenced in this ordinance and as necessary to protect the City from legal liabilities and promote the goals of this ordinance. 
	(f)	The Program Administrator shall monitor the effective costs of renewable energy system installation and other related market information for purposes of making the adjustments described in Section 18.7-4(e)(i). 
	(g)	The Program Administrator shall establish boundaries for any Environmental Justice District identified for purposes of Section 18.7(b)(iii). Any such district shall satisfy the goals, objectives and definitions of environmental justice and Environmental Justice Districts, as such concepts are set forth at any given time under state and local law. 
	(h)	The Program Administrator shall submit to the Board of Supervisors a status report on the first six-months of the pilot program, within 45 days of the end of the first six months of the program. The Program Administrator may submit an interim status report upon the exhaustion of either of the funding pools described in Section 18.7-5 and shall otherwise provide written monthly status reports. 
	(i)	The Program Administrator shall submit to the Board of Supervisors a report evaluating the one-year pilot program, within 90 days after the end of the first year. The report shall provide an analysis of the impacts of the program, including, without limitation, the number and location by district of the projects funded, the amount of energy generated by the projects, and the amount of time and money spent on program administration. The report shall evaluate the economic and other benefits of the program and provide a cost-benefit analysis. The data and analysis presented in this report shall inform future program funding, operation, and amendments. 
	(j)	In the context of considering appropriations for a solar incentive program in future years, the Board of Supervisors will (i) Consider the Program Administrator's first-year report, identified in subsection 18.7-6(i) above; (ii) Review and approve the Environmental Justice District boundaries established by the Program Administrator pursuant to subsection 18.7-6(h); 
		(iii)	Review and approve any new or modified criteria or incentives established by the Program Administrator. 
Section 18.7-7. Reserved. 
(Repealed by Ord. 42-09, File No. 090100, App. 4/2/2009) 
(Added by Ord. 106-08, File No. 080630, App. 6/24/2008) 
CHAPTER 19:
MANDATORY RECYCLING AND COMPOSTING 
Sec. 1901.Title. Sec. 1902.Definitions. Sec. 1903.Source Separation of Refuse Required. Sec. 1904.Requirements for Owners or Managers of Multifamily and Commercial Properties. Sec. 1905.Requirements for Owners or Managers of Food Vendors and Events. Sec. 1906.Requirements for Refuse Collectors, Transfer Stations, and Processing Facilities. Sec. 1907.Requirement to Subscribe to Refuse Collection Service. Sec. 1908.Enforcement. Sec. 1909.Forms, Regulations and Guidelines. Sec. 1910.Exceptions Sec. 1911.Disclaimer of Liability. Sec. 1912.Duties are Discretionary. 
SEC. 1901.  TITLE. 
	This Chapter shall be entitled "Mandatory Recycling and Composting". 
(Added by Ord. 10009, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1902.  DEFINITIONS. 
	For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words have the following meanings: 
	(a)	"Adequate Refuse Collection Service" means that a dwelling or commercial property is serviced by a Collector for recyclables, compostables, and trash, and that the level of service is sufficient to contain the refuse generated at that dwelling or commercial property. 
	(b)	"City" means the City and County of San Francisco. 
	(c)	"Collection" means taking physical possession of and removing discarded material from the place of generation for subsequent off-site management of that material. 
	(d)	"Collection Container" means the receptacle that is provided, designated and serviced by the collector for the collection of recyclables, compostables or trash. 
	(e)	"Collector" means a person, firm or corporation licensed and permitted to collect refuse by the Director of Public Health pursuant to the provisions of the Refuse Collection and Disposal Ordinance adopted November 8, 1932, as amended, and any other collectors of discarded material not excluded under that ordinance. 
	(f)	"Commercial Property" means a parcel or any portion of real property where refuse is generated that is not a dwelling, including schools, institutions, and City properties. 
	(g)	"Compostable" means any material that can be broken down into, or otherwise become part of, usable compost (e.g., soil-conditioning material) in a safe and timely manner as accepted in San Francisco's compostables collection program, such as food scraps, soiled paper and plant trimmings. Compostable materials can also include disposable plastic food service ware and bags if labeled "Compostable", in accordance with the Food Service Waste Reduction Ordinance (No. 295-06) and Department of the Environment regulations for easy identification, meeting the ASTM Standard Specification (D6400) for compostable plastics, and consistent with State labeling law (California Public Resources Code Section 42359) that any plastic bag or food container labeled "Compostable" must meet the ASTM Standard Specification for compostable plastics. 
	(h)	"Construction and Demolition Debris" means building materials generated from construction and demolition activities including, but not limited to, fully-cured asphalt, concrete, brick, rock, soil, lumber, gypsum wallboard, cardboard and other associated packaging, roofing material, ceramic tile, carpeting, fixtures, plastic pipe, metals, tree stumps, and other vegetative matter resulting from land clearing and landscaping for construction, deconstruction, demolition or land developments. Hazardous waste, as defined in California Health and Safety Code Sections 25100 et seq., is not construction and demolition debris for purposes of this Chapter. 
	(i)	"Customer" means any person being served food from a food vendor or event. 
	(j)	"Department" means the San Francisco Department of the Environment. 
	(k)	"Designated" means clearly labeled and color-coded for a material type, such as labeled blue receptacles for recyclables, green for compostables and black for trash. 
	(l)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of the Environment or his or her designee. 
	(m)	"Disposable Food Service Ware" means all containers, bowls, plates, trays, carton, cups, lids, straws, forks, spoons, knives, napkins and other items that are designed for one-time use for serving food. 
	(n)	"Dwelling" means a residence, flat, apartment, or other facility, used for housing one or more persons. 
	(o)	"Event" means any function that serves food and is permitted through any agency, including, but not limited to, the Department of Parking and Traffic, the Recreation and Park Department, the Port of San Francisco or, to the extent permitted by law, the National Park Service. 
	(p)	"Food Vendor" means any and all sales outlets, stores, shops, vehicles or other places of business located or operating in the city that operate primarily to sell or convey foods or beverages to consumers, and stores that sell food or beverages in combination with a gasoline station. 
	(q)	"Janitor" means the person who is hired by owners and managers of commercial properties and their contractors to process refuse on-site before it leaves the premises. 
	(r)	"Manager" means the authorized agent for the owner of a building, structure or property, who is responsible for the day-to-day operation of said building, structure or property. 
	(s)	"Multifamily Property" means a property that includes multiple residential households and has a single account with collector(s) for recyclables, compostables and trash. 
	(t)	"Person" means a natural person (including a resident, employee, or visitor), a firm, business concern, association, partnership, corporation or governmental entity, including the City and County of San Francisco and its departments, boards and commissions, and successors or assigns. 
	(u)	"Public Trash Container" means any receptacle installed by a public agency at a sidewalk, park or other public area and that is not under the control, unless otherwise required by this Chapter, of a multifamily or commercial property, food vendor or event manager. 
	(v)	"Recyclable" means any material that can be sorted and reconstituted, for the purpose of using the altered form in the manufacture of a new product, as accepted in San Francisco's recycling collection program, such as paper, bottles and cans. Recycling does not include burning, incinerating, converting, or otherwise thermally destroying solid waste. 
	(w)	"Refuse" has the meaning set forth in the Refuse Collection and Disposal Ordinance adopted November 8, 1932, as amended, and includes recyclables, compostables, and trash, but not construction and demolition debris or hazardous waste, all as defined in this Chapter. 
	(x)	"Source Separate" means to divide refuse at the place of discard generation, prior to collection, into separate containers that are designated for recyclables, compostables or trash. 
	(y)	"Transfer Station" means a facility that is permitted under Health Code Section 294 to receive discarded materials and transport them to a landfill for disposal. 
	(z)	"Trash" means material that is designated for landfill disposal by the collector and does not include either recyclable or compostable materials. The term "trash" does not include hazardous waste, as defined in California Health and Safety Code Sections 25100 et seq., or construction and demolition debris as defined in this Chapter. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1903.  SOURCE SEPARATION OF REFUSE REQUIRED. 
	All persons in San Francisco must source separate their refuse into recyclables, compostables and trash, and place each type of refuse in a separate container designated for disposal of that type of refuse. No person may mix recyclables, compostables or trash, or deposit refuse of one type in a collection container designated for another type of refuse, except as otherwise provided in this Chapter. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1904.  REQUIREMENTS FOR OWNERS OR MANAGERS OF MULTIFAMILY AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES. 
	(a)	Owners or managers of multifamily or commercial properties must provide Adequate Refuse Collection Service to the tenants, employees, contractors, and customers of the properties. 
	(b)	Owners or managers of multifamily or commercial properties must supply appropriate containers, placed in an appropriate location, to make source separation of refuse convenient for the tenants, employees, contractors, and customers of the properties. The containers must: 
		(1)	Be of appropriate number and size in light of the recyclable, compostable, and trash quantities reasonably anticipated to be generated at the location; 
		(2)	Bear appropriate signage and be color coded to identify the type of refuse to be contained—blue for recyclables, green for compostables, and black for trash—and meet any additional design criteria established by the Department by regulation; and, 
		(3)	Be placed as close together as possible, to provide equally convenient access to users. 
	(c)	Owners or managers of multifamily or commercial properties must provide information and/or training for new tenants, employees and contractors, including janitors on how to source separate recyclables, compostables and trash, and must re-educate existing tenants, employees and contractors at least once a year. 
	(d)	Owners and managers of commercial properties or their contractors will work with on-site janitors to create effective source separation programs as a means of achieving compliance, meeting citywide diversion goals, and achieving the diversion or disposal rate reported annually to the State of California. 
	(e)	New construction or expansion of multifamily or commercial properties may be subject to Department of Building Inspection requirements, such as Administrative Bulletin 088 and Building Code Chapter 13, Section 1304C, to provide adequate space for recyclables and compostables, which includes requiring any chute systems to keep compostables, recyclables and trash separate. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1905.  REQUIREMENTS FOR OWNERS OR MANAGERS OF FOOD VENDORS AND EVENTS. 
	(a)	Owners or managers of food vendors and events must provide Adequate Refuse Collection Service to their employees, contractors and customers. 
	(b)	Owners or managers of food vendors and events must supply appropriate containers, placed in appropriate locations, to make source separation of recyclables, compostables, and trash convenient for the employees, contractors, and customers of the food vendors and events. The containers must: 
		(1)	Be of appropriate number and size in light of the recyclable, compostable, and trash quantities reasonably anticipated to be generated at the location; 
		(2)	Bear appropriate signage and be color coded to identify the type of refuse to be deposited—blue for recyclables, green for compostables, and black for trash—and meet any additional design criteria established by the Department by regulation; and, 
		(3)	Be placed as close together as possible to provide equally convenient access to users. 
	(c)	Owners or managers of food vendors and events must provide information and/or training for new tenants, employees, and contractors, including janitors on how to source separate recyclables, compostables, and trash, and must re-educate existing tenants, employees, and contractors at least once a year. 
	(d)	Food vendors that provide disposable food ware must have at least one container each for recyclables, compostables and trash for use by customers and visitors, placed inside near a main exit, unless that food vendor does not use disposable food ware for on-site consumption and serves minimal to go orders per day, but not including any to go orders delivered to residents by a delivery service. Food vendors meeting the requirements of this Section are exempt from the requirement of Public Works Code Section 173 to place "a litter receptacle outside each exit." Multiple food vendors that provide disposable food service ware and share a common eating area may share an appropriate number, size, and placement of containers for recyclables, compostables and trash for convenient use by customers or visitors. 
	(e)	Food vendors and events must not put any fats, oils or grease in trash collection containers. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1906.  REQUIREMENTS FOR REFUSE COLLECTORS, TRANSFER STATIONS, AND PROCESSING FACILITIES. 
	(a)	All collectors must appropriately designate the collection containers they provide to customers for source separation of recyclables, compostables and trash. The containers must: 
		(1)	Bear appropriate signage that allows users to clearly and easily identify which containers to use for recyclables, compostables or trash; 
		(2)	Be color-coded—blue for recyclables, green for compostables and black for trash; and, 
		(3)	Bear the name of the collector to whom the container belongs. 
	(b)	(1)	If a collector finds materials that are not the correct type as designated for that container, such as recyclables or compostables in a trash container, or trash in a compostables or recyclables container, the collector then must leave a tag on the container identifying the incorrect materials. 
		(2)	If the collector continues to find incorrect materials in a collection container after the collector has left a previous tag for that customer and that type of container, the collector must leave another tag on the container identifying the incorrect materials and send a written notice to the person who subscribes for that collection service. 
		(3)	If the collector continues to find incorrect materials in a collection container after the collector has already left two or more tags for that customer and that type of container, the collector may refuse to empty the container, subject to California Code of Regulations Title 14, Section 17331, or as determined by the Director of Public Health or his or her designee. If the container is not emptied, the collector must leave a tag and send a written notice to the person who subscribers for the collection service, identifying the incorrect materials and describing what action must be taken for the materials to be collected; provided, however, that a collector may not refuse on this basis to empty containers from multifamily or commercial properties with multiple tenants and joint account collection service. 
		(4)	The collector shall, upon request, provide to the Director a list of the names and addresses of those persons who have received tags or notices or whose containers have not been emptied due to non-compliance with this Chapter, or copies of the tags or notices issued by the collector. The collector shall also provide to the Director, upon request, a list of the names, addresses, and service levels of the collector's customers and any additional information required by the Director. 
	(c)	Within 90 days of the end of each calendar year, each collector must submit to the Department, on a form specified by the Director, an annual report of all tons collected by material type and to whom the material was sent.
	(d)	No person may deliver recyclables or compostables, including those mixed with trash, to a landfill or transfer station for the purpose of having those materials landfilled, except as follows: 
		(1)	A collector may drop off recyclables or compostables at the San Francisco transfer station for landfill if the transfer station has agreed to provide to the Director, upon request, audits of collection vehicles for a specified period going forward in time. The transfer station's audit shall report the quantity of recyclables or compostables, stated as estimated tons per load or as a percentage of the loads, deposited at the transfer station by collection vehicles specifically identified in the request over a reasonable period of time occurring after the request. 
		(2)	A processing facility that sorts and reconstitutes recyclables for the purpose of using the altered form in the manufacture of a new product or turns compostables into usable and marketable compost (e.g., soil-conditioning) material may send to a landfill a minor portion of those materials that constitutes unmarketable processing residuals, if the processing facility provides to the Director, upon request, audits of specific collection vehicles for a specific period going forward in time, of the quantities of recyclables or compostables sent to the landfill from the processing facility. 
	(e)	No person may deliver trash from the city, including trash mixed with recyclables or compostables, to a processing facility, unless the processing facility has agreed to provide to the Director, upon request, audits of collection vehicles for a specified period going forward in time. The processing facility's audit shall report the quantity of trash, stated as estimated tons per load or as a percentage of the loads, deposited at the processing facility by collection vehicles specifically identified in the request over a reasonable period of time occurring after the request. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1907.  REQUIREMENT TO SUBSCRIBE TO REFUSE COLLECTION SERVICE. 
	Owners of residential, multifamily or commercial properties, events or other facilities that generate refuse must subscribe to and pay for Adequate Refuse Collection Service, and provide an accessible location for sufficient levels of service with collector(s) for source separated recyclables, compostables and trash, except as otherwise provided in this Chapter. Owners of such properties are responsible for any failure to subscribe to or pay for sufficient levels of refuse collection service. The Director of Public Health, pursuant to Health Code Article 6, as amended, shall enforce requirements for adequate and continuous refuse collections services. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1908.  ENFORCEMENT. 
	(a)	The Director and his or her designee may administer all provisions of this Chapter and enforce those provisions by any lawful means available for such purpose, except as otherwise provided in this Chapter. 
	(b)	To the extent permitted by law, the Director may inspect any collection container, collection vehicle load, or receiving facility for collected trash, recyclables or compostables. 
	(c)	Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the Director of the Department of Public Health or his or her designee may impose administrative fines for violations of those provisions of this Chapter, or of rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this Chapter, that pertain to the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Health. 
	(d)	Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee may impose administrative fines for violations of those provisions of this Chapter, or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this Chapter, that pertain to the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works. 
	(e)	San Francisco Administrative Code Chapter 100, "Procedures Governing the Imposition of Administrative Fines," as amended, is hereby incorporated in its entirety and shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection, and review of administrative citations issued to enforce this Chapter and any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this Chapter; provided, however, that: 
		(1)	The Director of Public Works or the Director of Public Health may adopt regulations providing for lesser penalty amounts than those provided in Administrative Code Section 100.5; 
		(2)	The fine for any violation at a dwelling or commercial property that generates less than one cubic yard of refuse per week may not initially exceed $100; and, 
		(3)	No person who is the owner, tenant, manager, employee, contractor, or visitor of a multifamily or of a multi-tenant commercial property shall be subject to fines or penalties for violation of Section 1903 (but will remain subject to such enforcement for violations of section 1904 and other sections of the Ordinance), unless and until the Director of the Department of the Environment has adopted specific regulations setting out the liability of such persons. The Director shall not adopt such regulations prior to July 1, 2011. 
	(f)	The City shall use administrative penalties collected under this Chapter, including recovery of enforcement costs, to fund implementation and enforcement of this Chapter. Remedies under this Chapter are in addition to and do not supersede or limit any and all other remedies, civil or criminal. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1909.  FORMS, REGULATIONS AND GUIDELINES. 
	(a)	After public notice and a public hearing, the Director may adopt necessary forms, regulations, and guidelines to implement this Chapter. 
	(b)	The Department shall provide assistance regarding compliance with this Chapter. 
	(c)	The Department shall provide information on its website regarding what materials are accepted as recyclables, compostables, and trash under this Chapter. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1910.  EXCEPTIONS 
	(a)	A property owner or manager may seek a waiver from the Director of all or portions of this Chapter, if the applicant submits documentation, using a form specified by the Director and including a signed affidavit under penalty of perjury, that shows that the property does not have adequate storage space for containers for recyclables, compostables or trash. In cases where after on-site verification space limitations are determined to exist, the Director shall evaluate the feasibility of sharing containers for recyclables, compostables or trash with contiguous properties, and, where feasible, requiring container sharing in lieu of providing a waiver. 
	(b)	Except as otherwise required by the Director, a collector may drop-off compostables or recyclables at the San Francisco transfer station that have been collected from public trash containers. The Director may require public trash containers to have a recyclables receptacle attached. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1911.  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY. 
	The degree of protection required by this Chapter is considered to be reasonable for regulatory purposes. The standards set forth in this Chapter are minimal standards and do not imply that compliance will ensure safe handling of recyclables, compostables or trash. This Chapter shall not create liability on the part of the City, or any of its officers or employees for any damages that result from reliance on this Chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made in accordance with this Chapter. All persons handling discarded materials within the City should be and are advised to conduct their own inquiry as to the handling of such materials. In undertaking the implementation of this Chapter, the City is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officer and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 1912.  DUTIES ARE DISCRETIONARY. 
	Subject to the limitations of due process and applicable requirements of State or Federal laws, and notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, whenever the words "shall" or "must" are used in establishing a responsibility or duty of the City, its elected or appointed officers, employees or agents, it is the legislative intent that such words establish a discretionary responsibility or duty requiring the exercise of judgment and discretion. 
(Added by Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
CHAPTER 20:
EXISTING COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS ENERGY PERFORMANCE 
Sec. 2000.Title and Purpose. Sec. 2001.Definitions. Sec. 2002.Energy Performance Evaluation and Reporting Required. Sec. 2003. Disclosure of Energy Performance Information.Sec. 2004.Schedule for Compliance. Sec. 2005.Confidentiality. Sec. 2006.Municipal Facilities. Sec. 2007.Implementation. Sec. 2008.Exceptions. Sec. 2009.Enforcement. 
SEC. 2000.  TITLE AND PURPOSE. 
	This Chapter may be referred to as the Existing Commercial Buildings Energy Performance Ordinance. 
	To encourage efficient use of energy, this Chapter requires owners of nonresidential buildings in San Francisco to obtain energy efficiency audits, as well as to annually measure and disclose energy performance. It also requires the Department of Environment to collect summary statistics about the energy performance of nonresidential buildings and make those statistics available to the public. 
(Added by Ord. 17-11, File No. 101105, App. 2/18/2011) 
SEC. 2001.  DEFINITIONS. 
	For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings: 
	1.	"Annual Energy Benchmark Summary" means a report to the Department of Environment summarizing the annual energy performance of a whole building for purposes of verifying compliance with this chapter, tracking improvement, motivating improved energy performance, targeting incentives and resources, and enabling comparison to similar facilities. 
	2.	"Building Owner" means a person, as defined by California Public Resources Code Section 25116 or any successor legislation, possessing title to the building. For buildings owned or primarily occupied by City departments, the department or entity responsible for annual greenhouse gas emissions reporting for the building under Section 904 of this Code may act as the "building owner" for purposes of this Chapter. 
	3.	"Building Characteristics" means basic descriptive information and reasonable estimates of factors affecting energy use in the building, including but not limited to building type and space attributes as defined by the benchmarking tool(s). 
	4.	"Director" means the Director of the Department of the Environment, or his or her designee.
	5.	"Energy" means electricity, natural gas, steam, heating oil, or other product sold by a utility to a customer of a nonresidential building, or renewable on-site electricity generation, for purposes of providing heat, cooling, lighting, water heating, or for powering or fueling other end-uses in the building and related facilities.
	6.	"Energy efficiency audit" means a systematic evaluation to identify modifications and improvements to building equipment and systems which utilize energy, meeting or exceeding the Procedures for Commercial Building Energy Audits published by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-conditioning Engineers Inc. (ASHRAE), or similar comprehensive whole-building evaluation, as determined by the Director, or, in the case of municipal buildings, as determined by the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission.
	7.	"Energy Professional" means an individual qualified to perform energy efficiency audits required by this Chapter, as further detailed in Section 2002(c) of this Chapter. 
	8.	"ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager" means the US Environmental Protection Agency's online tool for managing building data, used to create a US EPA Energy Performance Rating. 
	9.	"ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager Energy Performance Rating" means the US Environmental Protection Agency's 1-to-100 building energy efficiency measurement, normalized for a building's characteristics, operations, and weather, according to methods established by US EPA's ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager. 
	10.	"Gross Floor Area" or "Area" means the total number of square feet measured between the principal exterior surfaces of enclosing fixed walls.
	11.	"kBTU" means kilo (thousand) British thermal units, a common unit of energy measurement utilized to convert and combine other common energy measurements such as kilowatt hours of electricity, therms of natural gas, and pounds of steam.
	12.	"Level I Audit" means a brief on-site survey of a building which identifies and provides cost analysis for low-cost and no-cost energy saving measures, and lists potential capital improvements, meeting the Level I standard of Procedures for Commercial Building Energy Audits published by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-conditioning Engineers Inc. (ASHRAE) 
	13.	"Level II Audit" means a detailed on-site survey and energy analysis which identifies and provides savings and cost analysis of all practical measures and meets the Level II standard of Procedures for Commercial Building Energy Audits published by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-conditioning Engineers Inc. (ASHRAE). 
	14.	"Net Present Value" means the value in today's dollars of all future costs and benefits from an investment, after compensating for the effects of interest. 
	15.	"Nonresidential building" and "building" mean a facility of composed of occupancy type(s) other than residential — including type A, B, E, I-1, I-2, I-3, M, R1 and S, as defined by California Building Code Title 24 Section 302 (2010) as amended -where a gross area of 10,000 square feet or more is heated or cooled in its interior. 
	16.	"Retro-Commissioning Measures" mean non-capital work such as repairs, maintenance, adjustments, changes to controls or related software, or operational improvements that optimize a building's energy performance and that have been identified by a systematic process of investigating and analyzing the performance of a building's equipment and systems that impact energy consumption. 
	17.	"Retrofit Measures" mean capital alterations of building systems involving the installation of energy efficiency technologies that reduce energy consumption and improve the efficiency of such systems. 
	18.	"Simple Payback" means the number of years it takes for the projected annual energy savings to pay back the amount invested in the energy efficiency measure, as determined by dividing the investment by the annual energy savings. 
	19.	"System" means a building assembly made up of various components that serve a specific function, including but not limited to exterior walls, windows, doors, roofs, ceilings, floors, lighting, piping, ductwork, insulation, HVAC system equipment or components, electrical appliances and plumbing appliances. 
	20.	"Tenant" means a person, as defined by California Public Resources Code 25116 or any successor legislation, who leases space in a nonresidential building. 
(Added by Ord. 17-11, File No. 101105, App. 2/18/2011) 
SEC. 2002.  ENERGY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND REPORTING REQUIRED. 
	(a)	Energy Efficiency Audits and Energy Efficiency Audit Reports. The owner of any nonresidential building with a gross area of 10,000 square feet or greater shall conduct a comprehensive energy efficiency audit for each such building. Energy efficiency audits shall comprehensively examine whole buildings, and must be completed on the schedule set forth in Section 2004 of this Chapter, or as described in Section 2006, as applicable. 
	(b)	Energy Efficiency Audit Standards. Energy efficiency audits required by this Chapter shall meet or exceed the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Procedures for Commercial Building Energy Audits (2004), or shall comply with Section 2006, as applicable. Energy efficiency audits must be performed by, or under the supervision of, an energy professional as defined in subsections (c) and (d), below. The level of detail required in an energy efficiency audit shall be proportionate to the scale of the nonresidential building, such that: 
		(1)	Buildings greater than 50,000 square feet in gross area shall receive a comprehensive audit of the whole building which meets or exceeds the Level II Audit standard or equivalent as determined by the Director. 
		(2)	Buildings greater than 10,000 square feet and less than or equal to 49,999 square feet in gross area receive a walkthrough audit of the whole building which meets or exceeds the Level I audit standard, or equivalent as determined by the Director. 
	(c)	Energy Efficiency Auditor Qualifications. An energy professional performing or supervising energy efficiency audits must be able to demonstrate possession in good standing of at least one of the following minimum qualifications: 
		(1)	Licensed Engineer and one of the following: 
			(A)	At least 2 years experience performing energy efficiency audits or commissioning of existing buildings; or 
			(B)	ASHRAE Commissioning Process Management Professional Certification; or 
			(C)	Similar qualifications in energy efficiency analysis or commissioning. 
		(2)	Association of Energy Engineers Certified Energy Manager (CEM), and at least 2 years experience performing energy efficiency audits or commissioning of existing buildings; 
		(3)	At least 10 years experience as a building operating engineer, or at least 5 years experience as a chief operating engineer and one of the following: 
			(A)	BOC International Building Operator Certification; or 
			(B)	International Union of Operating Engineers Certified Energy Specialist; or 
		(4)	Equivalent professional qualifications to manage, maintain, or evaluate building systems, as well as specialized training in energy efficiency audits and maintenance of building systems, as determined by the Director. 
	(d)	Energy Efficiency Audit Report. The energy professional shall prepare, sign, and deliver to the owner of the covered building a report of the energy efficiency audit which meets or exceeds the reporting standards set forth in ASHRAE Procedures for Commercial Building Energy Audits (2004 or later), or equivalent as determined by the Director pursuant to this Section or Section 2006, as applicable. The signed report shall be delivered to the owner of the covered building. In the course of meeting the relevant ASHRAE standards for communication, the energy efficiency audit report shall include: 
		(1)	The date(s) that the audit was performed; 
		(2)	A list of all retro-commissioning and retrofit measures available to the owner; 
		(3)	An estimate of the approximate energy savings, avoided energy cost, and costs to implement each measure; and 
		(4)	One of the following: 
			(A)	A list of all retro-commissioning and retrofit measures available to the owner with a simple payback of not more than 5 years; or 
			(B)	A list of all retro-commissioning and retrofit measures available to the owner with a positive net present value; or 
			(C)	An integrated package of retro-commissioning and retrofit measures that in combination will equal or exceed the total combined reduction in energy consumption of implementing all retrofit and retro-commissioning measures with a simple payback of not more than 5 years. 
	(e)	Tracking and benchmarking energy performance. Building owners shall use "EPA ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager" to track the total energy use of each non-residential building and obtain an ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager Energy Performance Rating for each applicable entire nonresidential building according to the schedule provided in Section 2004. 
(Added by Ord. 17-11, File No. 101105, App. 2/18/2011) 
SEC. 2003.  DISCLOSURE OF ENERGY PERFORMANCE INFORMATION. 
	(a)	Annual Energy Benchmark Summary Reporting. The owner of every nonresidential building of greater than 10,000 gross square feet in the City shall annually file with the Department of the Environment an Annual Energy Benchmark Summary report ("AEBS") for each covered building using ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager and according to the schedule set forth in Section 2004 of this Chapter. The AEBS shall be based on assessment in Portfolio Manager of the entire non-residential building and related facilities, and must use 12 continuous months of data ending no earlier than two months prior to submittal to the Department of the Environment. Data required in the AEBS shall be limited to: 
		(1)	Descriptive Information. Basic descriptive information to track compliance with this ordinance, including but not limited to the building address, the individual or entity responsible for the energy performance summary and energy efficiency audit, and similar information required by the Director for purposes of tracking and reporting compliance. 
		(2)	Energy Benchmark Information. 
			(A)	The ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager Energy Performance Rating for the building, wherever applicable; 
			(B)	The nonresidential building energy rating established by the State of California for the building, if applicable; 
			(C)	The weather-normalized energy use intensity per unit area per year (kBTU per square foot per year) for the building; 
			(D)	The energy use intensity per unit area per year (kBTU per square foot per year) for the building; 
			(E)	The annual carbon dioxide equivalent emissions due to energy use for the building as estimated by ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager or other tools approved by the Director in a manner consistent with Department Climate Action Plan Reporting procedures; and 
			(F)	Descriptive information required by Portfolio Manager to assess the property, such as facility gross square footage. 
	(b)	Energy Efficiency Audit Reporting. The owner of every non-residential building shall file a Confirmation of Energy Efficiency Audit for each covered building with the Department of the Environment according to the schedule set forth in Section 2004 or Section 2006 of this Chapter, as applicable. The Confirmation of Energy Efficiency Audit shall be limited to: 
		(1)	Acknowledgement of the type of energy efficiency audit required for the nonresidential building. 
		(2)	For the most recent energy efficiency audit meeting these requirements, a summary of: 
			(A)	The date(s) that the audit was performed, along with affirmation by the energy professional and building owner that the audit meets the applicable standards; 
			(B)	A list of all retro-commissioning and retrofit measures available to the owner with a simple payback of not more than 3 years, or with a beneficial net present value, or in an integrated package of measures; and, 
			(C)	The sum of estimated costs, as well as the sum of estimated energy savings if the list of identified measures, and indication which measures at the option of the owner have been implemented; 
	(c)	Publication of Limited Summary Data. The Department of the Environment shall make available to the public, and update at least annually, the following information: 
		(1)	Summary statistics on energy use in nonresidential buildings in San Francisco derived from aggregation of Annual Energy Benchmark Summary reports, aggregation of Confirmation of Energy Efficiency Audits, and relevant additional aggregate data as available; 
		(2)	Summary statistics on overall compliance with this Chapter; 
		(3)	For each covered building: 
			(A)	The status of compliance with the requirements of this Chapter; 
			(B)	The minimum required ASHRAE level for an energy efficiency audit; 
			(C)	The most recent date when an energy efficiency audit meeting the required ASHRAE level was completed; 
			(D)	Annual summary statistics for the whole building from the Annual Energy Benchmark Summary, including annual average energy use intensity, ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager Energy Performance Rating where available, California nonresidential energy performance ratings if available, and annual carbon dioxide emissions attributable to energy use in the building. 
	(d)	Tenant Notification. In order to engage building occupants in efforts to save energy, building owners must make the Annual Energy Benchmark Summary report available to all tenants occupying the building. 
	(e)	Individually-Metered Tenant Spaces. Where a unit or other space in a covered building is occupied by a tenant and such unit or space is separately metered by a utility company, the owner of the building shall acquire energy usage data for all meters in the building solely for the purpose of benchmarking the energy performance of the building as a whole. Nothing in this Chapter shall require or in any way change the ability of a building owner to report or disclose energy usage of individual tenants. 
	(f)	Quality Assurance. To assist with the reliability and utility of Annual Energy Benchmark Summary and Confirmation of Energy Efficient Audit report data, as well as to verify good faith compliance with this Chapter, the Director shall have the authority to review relevant documents, including an ENERGY STAR® Statement of Energy Performance signed by an energy professional, or Energy Efficiency Audit Report. In the event an energy efficiency audit report or Statement of Energy Performance is found to have failed to meet the criteria in Section 2002(a) through (d), The Director may apply the administrative penalties specified in Section 2009, and the building owner shall correct the errors and resubmit the energy efficiency audit report or Statement of Energy performance within 45 days of being notified by the Director of the insufficiencies of the original submission. Any energy-related information obtained in the course of Quality Assurance beyond items explicitly required to be made public in Section 2003(c) shall remain confidential to the extent permitted by law, unless designated in writing by the building owner to be public or otherwise demonstrated to be common knowledge. 
(Added by Ord. 17-11, File No. 101105, App. 2/18/2011) 
SEC. 2004.  SCHEDULE FOR COMPLIANCE. 
	(a)	Annual Energy Benchmark Summary Reports from Portfolio Manager. 
		(1)	For a non-residential building with gross area greater than 50,000 square feet, the owner must complete and submit the initial Annual Energy Benchmark Summary report on or before October 1, 2011, and annually no later than April 1 thereafter. Annual Energy Benchmark Summary report data submitted prior to January 1, 2012 shall not be published, is exempt from Section 2003(c) and (d) of this Chapter, and shall remain confidential to the extent permitted by law, unless designated in writing by the building owner to be public or otherwise demonstrated to be common knowledge.
		(2)	For a non-residential building with gross area greater than 25,000 square feet but less than or equal to 49,999 square feet, the owner must complete and submit the initial AEBS on or before April 1, 2012, and annually no later than April 1 thereafter. Annual Energy Benchmark Summary report data submitted prior to January 1, 2013 for buildings less than or equal to 50,000 square feet shall not be published, is exempt from Section 2003(c) and (d) of this Chapter, and shall remain confidential to the extent permitted by law, unless designated in writing by the building owner to be public or otherwise demonstrated to be common knowledge. 
		(3)	For a non-residential building with gross area greater than 10,000 square feet but less than 24,999 square feet, the owner must complete and submit the initial AEBS on or before April 1, 2013, and annually no later than April 1 thereafter. Annual Energy Benchmark Summary report data submitted prior to January 1, 2013 for buildings less than or equal to 25,000 square feet shall not be published, is exempt from Section 2003(c) and (d) of this Chapter, and shall remain confidential to the extent permitted by law, unless designated in writing by the building owner to be public or otherwise demonstrated to be common knowledge. 
	(b)	Energy Efficiency Audits and Reporting. 
		(1)	No later than 120 days after enactment of this Chapter, the Department of Environment shall establish a schedule for energy efficiency audit reports for nonresidential buildings not covered by Section 2006, such that: 
			(A)	To ensure sufficient energy auditing capacity, due dates for initial energy efficiency audits for all covered buildings shall be staggered over a three year rolling deadline, starting no later than 12 months after the effective date of this ordinance, with subsequent energy efficiency audits and energy efficiency audit reports every five years thereafter. 
			(B)	All buildings required to undertake an energy efficiency audit shall be assigned a specific date when a completed energy efficiency audit is due. 
			(C)	The Department of Environment shall notify the owner of each covered building of the requirements of this article one year prior to the date an energy efficiency audit is required to be completed. 
		(2)	The owners of covered buildings in existence on the effective date of this Chapter may comply with the first assigned due date for an energy efficiency audit by submitting records of audits, retro-commissioning, and retrofits performed not more than 3 years prior to the effective date of this ordinance, provided that the entire building was evaluated and that the energy efficiency audit reports performed prior to the completion of rule-making are signed and dated by a Professional Engineer, Certified Energy Manager, Certified Energy Auditor, or person with similar professional credentials as determined by the Director. Such submittals shall include certification that all work associated with the audit (including but not limited to surveys, inspections, and analyses) was completed not more than 3 years prior to the effective date of this ordinance, and meets at least one of the following criteria: 
			(A)	For buildings greater than 50,000 square feet in gross area, energy efficiency audits performed prior to the completion of rule-making must meet the Level II audit standard. 
			(B)	For buildings 49,999 square feet in gross area or less, energy efficiency audits performed prior to the completion of rule-making must meet the Level I audit standard. 
			(C)	An energy efficiency audit of the entire building for work implemented under the San Francisco Energy Watch program, or 
			(D)	Other comprehensive energy efficiency audit of the entire building, subject to approval by the Director. 
(Added by Ord. 17-11, File No. 101105, App. 2/18/2011) 
SEC. 2005.  CONFIDENTIALITY. 
	(a)	Consistent with the provisions of this Section and to the extent permitted by law, the Department of the Environment shall maintain the confidentiality of any information submitted by building owners under this Chapter, where the owner has informed the Department in writing within 15 business days of the submittal of such information that the information is confidential business information of the owner or of a building tenant. Lists of cost-effective energy efficiency measures as well as associated estimated costs and benefits for individual buildings shall be presumed confidential, unless otherwise indicated in writing by the building owner or it can be demonstrated that the information is already available to the public. 
	(b)	The owner shall not be required by this Chapter to disclose to third parties or the public confidential business information of the owner or individual tenants. However, the following limited summary information is not to be considered confidential: 
		(1)	Confirmation that the nonresidential building is in compliance with this chapter, Chapter 20 of the San Francisco Environment Code; 
		(2)	The minimum ASHRAE audit level required in an energy efficiency audit of the building, and the most recent date when an energy efficiency audit meeting the relevant standard was completed; and, 
		(3)	Aggregate annual summary statistics for a whole building, including annual average energy use intensity, ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager Energy Performance Ratings, California nonresidential energy performance ratings, and annual carbon dioxide emissions attributable to energy use in the building. 
	(c)	If a building owner believes that any information required to be reported or disclosed by this Chapter includes confidential business information, the owner shall provide the information to the Director and shall notify the Director in writing of that belief, detailing the basis of the belief as to each specific item of information the person claims is confidential business information. For purposes of this Chapter, "confidential business information" shall have the same meaning as "trade secret" under California Civil Code Section 3426.1, as amended. The owner designating information as confidential business information shall also provide the Director with a name and street address for notification purposes and shall be responsible for updating such information. The Director shall not disclose any properly substantiated confidential business information which is so designated by an owner except as required by this Chapter or as otherwise required by law. 
	(d)	Information designated as confidential business information may be disclosed to an officer or employee of the City and County of San Francisco, the State of California, or the United States of America for use in connection with the official duties of such officer or employee acting under authority of law, without liability on the part of the City. 
	(e)	When the Director or other City official or employee receives a request for information that has been designated as, or which the City determines may be, confidential business information, the City shall notify the building owner of the request. The City may request further evidence or explanation from the owner as to why the information requested is confidential business information. If the City determines that the information does not constitute confidential business information, the City shall notify the owner of that conclusion and that the information will be released by a specified date in order to provide the owner the opportunity to obtain a court order prohibiting disclosure. 
	(f)	In adopting this Chapter, the Board of Supervisors does not intend to authorize or require the disclosure to the public of any confidential business information protected under the laws of the State of California. 
	(g)	This Section is not intended to empower a person or business to refuse to disclose any information, including but not limited to confidential business information, to the Director as required under this Chapter. 
	(h)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, any officer or employee of the City and County of San Francisco, or former officer or employee or contractor with the City or employee thereof, who by virtue of such employment of official position has obtained possession or has had access to information, the disclosure of which is prohibited by this Section, and who, knowing that disclosure of the information is prohibited, knowingly and willfully discloses the information in any manner to any person or business not entitled to receive it, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 
(Added by Ord. 17-11, File No. 101105, App. 2/18/2011) 
SEC. 2006.  MUNICIPAL FACILITIES. 
	(a)	The General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) may elect to develop a compliance plan for municipally owned buildings greater than 10,000 square feet, on or before July 1, 2011. The goal of a compliance plan shall be to apply the results of energy audits and benchmarking to prioritize the implementation of energy efficiency upgrades in municipal buildings and to maximize energy savings. The compliance plan shall constitute the entirety of regulatory compliance with this Chapter for municipal buildings and shall include all of the following: 
		(1)	Consultation with City Departments. The compliance plan shall be developed in consultation with relevant City departments including the Department of the Environment, the Department of Real Estate and the Capital Planning Committee established in Administrative Code Section 3.21, so as to leverage existing energy data collection processes; 
		(2)	Benchmarking tools applicable to municipal building types. Benchmarking shall include, but is not limited to, information substantially equivalent to the Energy Benchmark Information in Section 2003(a)(2) as determined by the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission. For the purpose of benchmarking municipally owned buildings greater than 10,000 square feet, each City department head or agency general manager shall provide to the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission the data required by the compliance plan for all municipal buildings under the respective department or agency jurisdiction. Benchmarking municipal facilities shall be completed according to the compliance schedule in Section 2004(a); 
		(3)	Energy audit protocols; 
		(4)	Reporting protocols; and, 
		(5)	A timeline for compliance with energy audit requirements. 
	(b)	If a compliance plan for municipally owned buildings is not developed and implementation initiated pursuant to paragraph (a), each City department head or agency general manager shall be responsible for compliance with the provisions of this Chapter for all municipally owned buildings under the respective department or agency jurisdiction. 
(Added by Ord. 17-11, File No. 101105, App. 2/18/2011) 
SEC. 2007.  IMPLEMENTATION. 
	(a)	The Director may adopt rules and regulations for the implementation of this Chapter, including rules for the electronic submittal of Annual Energy Benchmark Summary Reports and Confirmations of Energy Efficient Audits, as well as verification that the Department has received an Annual Energy Benchmark Summary or Confirmation of Energy Efficient Audit. 
	(b)	The Director may modify or suspend the requirements of this Chapter if: 
		(1)	The State of California or Federal government adopts a similar or more comprehensive building energy performance rating program, and such regulation requires comprehensive rating and/or public identification of existing building stock; or, 
		(2)	The Director makes written finding to the Commission on the Environment that a technological deficiency in the evaluation tool or tools specified under this Chapter precludes compliance with this Chapter. The Director may lift all or part of such suspension upon the written finding that any such deficiency has been corrected. 
(Added by Ord. 17-11, File No. 101105, App. 2/18/2011) 
SEC. 2008.  EXCEPTIONS. 
	(a)	Energy Efficiency Audit. No energy efficiency audit is required if any one of the following exceptions apply: 
		(1)	New Construction. The building was newly constructed less than five years prior to the date an energy performance summary is due; 
		(2)	Regular ENERGY STAR®. The covered building has received the EPA ENERGY STAR® label from the US Environmental Protection Agency for at least three of the five years preceding the filing of the building's energy performance summary; or, 
		(3)	LEED Existing Buildings Operations and Maintenance. The covered building has been certified under the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating system for Existing Buildings Operation and Maintenance published by the United States Green Building Council or other LEED rating system for whole existing buildings as determined by the Department of the Environment, within five years prior to the date the building's energy performance summary would otherwise be due. 
		(4)	Financial Distress. Owners of financially distressed buildings may apply for extensions of not more than one year in each instance for completion of an Energy Efficiency Audit and submittal of Confirmation of Energy Efficiency Audit, and for not more than one year in each instance for submittal of an Energy Benchmark Summary. Buildings in financial distress at the time an Energy Efficiency Audit or Energy Benchmark Summary are due include: 
			(A)	Properties qualified for sale at public auction by the Treasurer and Tax Collector due to arrears of property taxes that resulted in the property's qualification for sale at public auction or acquisition by a public agency within two years prior to the due date of an energy efficiency audit report; 
			(B)	Buildings where a court appointed receiver is in control of the asset due to financial distress; 
			(C)	Buildings owned by a financial institution through default by the borrower; 
			(D)	Buildings acquired by a deed in lieu of foreclosure; and 
			(E)	Buildings where the senior mortgage is subject to a notice of default. 
		(5)	Three or More Buildings Under Common Ownership. Where the same person or entity owns three or more buildings subject to this Chapter, and the Energy Efficiency Audit due dates for more than one-third of those buildings fall within a single twelve-month period, the building owner may apply to the Director for, and shall be granted, an extension, not to exceed one year, of the due dates for the Energy Efficiency Audits and Confirmations of Energy Efficiency Audits for up to two-thirds of the buildings under common ownership. The application shall specify which buildings are to be covered by the extension. 
	(b)	Confirmation of Energy Efficiency Audit. Where an energy efficiency audit is not required due to one of the exceptions in Section 2008(a), the Confirmation of Energy Efficiency Audit shall be filed, shall include reference to the exception that applies, and shall include a copy of relevant documentation for verification by the Department of Environment: 
		(1)	Date of New Construction may be verified using a copy of the Certificate of Occupancy issued by the Department of Building Inspection. 
		(2)	ENERGY STAR® label may be verified using a report from Portfolio Manager signed by the professional engineer, or confirmation of listings on the US Environmental Protection Agency list of ENERGY STAR labeled buildings. 
		(3)	LEED for Existing Buildings Operation and Maintenance certification may be verified using a copy of the relevant certificate or confirmation of listing on the Green Building Certification Institute's LEED Certified Projects List; and 
		(4)	Financial distress may be verified using a record of sale at public auction or an affidavit from the Treasurer Tax Collector. 
		(5)	Exceptions under subsection (a)(5) may be verified using a copy of the extension granted by the Director. 
	(c)	Annual Energy Benchmark Summary. Exceptions to energy efficiency audit requirements do not affect the date when an AEBS report is due. However, benchmarking with Energy Star Portfolio Manager is not required under the following conditions: 
		(1)	New Buildings. New buildings may receive an extension to the date of submittal of an initial Annual Energy Benchmark Summary report of not less than 24 months from the date that a Certificate of Occupancy is issued by the Department of Building Inspection, or the applicable deadline in the Department of the Environment compliance schedule, whichever is greater. AEBS reports shall be due annually thereafter. 
		(2)	Unoccupied Buildings. Benchmarking with Energy Star Portfolio Manager is not required if the building had less than one full-time equivalent occupant for the twelve-month period preceding the due date of an Annual Energy Benchmark Summary. 
(Added by Ord. 17-11, File No. 101105, App. 2/18/2011) 
SEC. 2009.  ENFORCEMENT. 
	(a)	Written Warning of Violation. The Director shall issue a written warning to any building owner he or she determines is violating any provision of this Chapter. In the event a building owner fails to file an AEBS report for 30 days or more after the relevant deadline, the Director shall indicate that building's compliance status via the publicly accessible electronic reporting interface. If 45 days after issuing a written warning of violation from the Director, the Director finds that building owner continues to violate any provisions of this Chapter, the Director may impose administrative fines as provided in this Section. 
	(b)	Administrative Fines. Violations of the provisions of this Chapter, or of any regulations issued by the Director pursuant to Section 2007, may be punished by administrative fines as follows: 
		(1)	For buildings of 50,000 square feet and greater, up to $100.00 per day for a maximum of 25 days in one twelve-month period for each building in violation. 
		(2)	For buildings of 49,999 square feet or less, up to $50.00 per day for a maximum of 25 days in one twelve-month period for each building in violation. 
		Except as to the amount of administrative fines, set forth above, Administrative Code Chapter 100, "Procedures Governing the Imposition of Administrative Fines," as may be amended from time to time, is hereby incorporated in its entirety and shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection, and review of administrative citations issued by the Department of the Environment to enforce this Chapter and any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this Chapter. 
	(c)	Use of Proceeds. Administrative fine collected under subsection (b) shall be used to fund implementation and enforcement of this Chapter. 
	(d)	This Section shall not apply to the City or to any municipally owned buildings. 
(Added by Ord. 17-11, File No. 101105, App. 2/18/2011) 
CHAPTER 21:
[REPEALED]
Editor's Notes:
	Former Chapter 21, "Yellow Pages Distribution Pilot Program," was repealed in its entirety by Ord. 179-13.
	Former Chapter 21 originally was designated Chapter 20, Sections 20.1 through 20.8, when enacted by Ord. 78-11. The chapter and its constituent sections were renumbered by the editor in order to avoid conflicting with previously existing material.
SEC. 2101.  REPEALED.
(Added by Ord. 78-11, File No. 110114, App. 5/19/2011, Eff. 6/18/11, Oper. 5/1/2012; repealed by Ord. 179-13, File No. 130186, App. 8/7/2013, Eff. 9/6/2013)
SEC. 2102.  REPEALED.
(Added by Ord. 78-11, File No. 110114, App. 5/19/2011, Eff. 6/18/11, Oper. 5/1/2012; repealed by Ord. 179-13, File No. 130186, App. 8/7/2013, Eff. 9/6/2013)
SEC. 2103.  REPEALED.
(Added by Ord. 78-11, File No. 110114, App. 5/19/2011, Eff. 6/18/11, Oper. 5/1/2012; repealed by Ord. 179-13, File No. 130186, App. 8/7/2013, Eff. 9/6/2013)
SEC. 2104.  REPEALED.
(Added by Ord. 78-11, File No. 110114, App. 5/19/2011, Eff. 6/18/11, Oper. 5/1/2012; repealed by Ord. 179-13, File No. 130186, App. 8/7/2013, Eff. 9/6/2013)
SEC. 2105.  REPEALED.
(Added by Ord. 78-11, File No. 110114, App. 5/19/2011, Eff. 6/18/11, Oper. 5/1/2012; repealed by Ord. 179-13, File No. 130186, App. 8/7/2013, Eff. 9/6/2013)
SEC. 2106.  REPEALED.
(Added by Ord. 78-11, File No. 110114, App. 5/19/2011, Eff. 6/18/11, Oper. 5/1/2012; repealed by Ord. 179-13, File No. 130186, App. 8/7/2013, Eff. 9/6/2013)
SEC. 2107.  REPEALED.
(Added by Ord. 78-11, File No. 110114, App. 5/19/2011, Eff. 6/18/11, Oper. 5/1/2012; repealed by Ord. 179-13, File No. 130186, App. 8/7/2013, Eff. 9/6/2013)
SEC. 2108.  REPEALED.
(Added by Ord. 78-11, File No. 110114, App. 5/19/2011, Eff. 6/18/11, Oper. 5/1/2012; repealed by Ord. 179-13, File No. 130186, App. 8/7/2013, Eff. 9/6/2013)
SEC. 2109.  REPEALED.
(Added by Ord. 245-12, File No. 121029, App. 12/7/2012, Eff. 1/6/2013; repealed by Ord. 179-13, File No. 130186, App. 8/7/2013, Eff. 9/6/2013)
CHAPTER 22:
SAFE DRUG DISPOSAL INFORMATION
Sec. 2250.Short Title.Sec. 2251.Definitions.Sec. 2252.Information Required at Point of Sale.Sec. 2253.Implementation.Sec. 2254.Enforcement.
SEC. 2250.  SHORT TITLE.
	This Ordinance shall be entitled the "Safe Drug Disposal Information Ordinance."
(Added by Ord. 85-11, File No. 110025, App. 5/31/2011, Eff. 6/30/2011)
SEC. 2251.  DEFINITIONS.
	For the purposes of this Ordinance, the following words shall have the following meanings:
	(a)	"Business" means a fixed location within the City and County of San Francisco, whether indoors or outdoors, at which Prescription Drugs are offered for sale at retail and that is required to obtain a valid San Francisco business registration certificate from the San Francisco Tax Collector's office.
	(b)	"Department" means the Department of the Environment.
	(c)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of the Environment.
	(d)	"Display materials" means signs, posters or other similar informational materials.
	(e)	"Prescription drug" means any drug that by federal or state law may be dispensed lawfully only on prescription.
(Added by Ord. 85-11, File No. 110025, App. 5/31/2011, Eff. 6/30/2011)
SEC. 2252.  INFORMATION REQUIRED AT POINT OF SALE.
	(a)	Beginning December 1, 2011, any business selling prescription drugs to the public shall post display materials approved by the Director explaining how members of the public may safely and lawfully dispose of unused prescription drugs. The materials shall be in English, Spanish, and Chinese, and legible and easily readable by the average person. The materials shall be posted on the premises of the business in a location visible to the public and adjacent to the area where the prescription drugs are dispensed.
	(b)	The Director may, in his or her discretion, authorize a business to use alternate means to comply with the requirements of subsection (a). The Director shall authorize such alternate means through the adoption of a regulation after a noticed hearing, and no business may sell prescription drugs to the public or offer to sell prescription drugs to the public using any alternate means of compliance with this Chapter unless specifically authorized to do so in advance in writing by the Director.
	(c)	The City urges all persons and entities providing prescription drugs to the public for free to also participate in this program.
(Added by Ord. 85-11, File No. 110025, App. 5/31/2011, Eff. 6/30/2011)
SEC. 2253.  IMPLEMENTATION.
	(a)	The Director, after a public hearing, may adopt and may amend guidelines, rules, regulations, and forms to implement this Ordinance.
	(b)	By October 1, 2011, the Department shall issue regulations specifying the contents and format for the display materials required by Section 2252.
(Added by Ord. 85-11, File No. 110025, App. 5/31/2011, Eff. 6/30/2011)
SEC. 2254.  ENFORCEMENT.
	(a)	During the period between the effective date of this Chapter and December 1, 2011, the operative date for compliance, the Department shall develop and conduct an education and assistance program for businesses subject to the Chapter, and shall contact the businesses and assist them with meeting the requirements of the Chapter.
	(b)	Beginning September 1, 2011, the City Administrator shall issue a written warning to any person he or she determines is violating provisions of this Chapter or any regulation issued under this Chapter. If 30 days after issuance of the written warning the City Administrator finds that the person receiving the warning has continued to violate the provisions of the Chapter or any regulation issued under this Chapter, the City Administrator may impose administrative fines as provided below in subsections (c), (d), and (e).
	(c)	Violation of this Chapter or any regulation issued under this Chapter shall be punishable by administrative fines in the amount of:
		(1)	Up to $100.00 for the first violation;
		(2)	Up to $250.00 for the second violation within a twelve-month period; and,
		(3)	Up to $500 for the third and subsequent violations within a twelve-month period.
	(d)	Except as provided in subsection (c), setting forth the amount of administrative fines, Administrative Code Chapter 100, "Procedures Governing the Imposition of Administrative Fines," as may be amended from time to time, is hereby incorporated in its entirety and shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection, and review of administrative citations issued by the City Administrator to enforce this Chapter or any regulation issued under this Chapter. Violation of this Chapter is not a misdemeanor, and the Board of Supervisors intends that the requirements of this Chapter be enforced only through administrative fines as provided in this Section.
	(e)	For purposes of this Chapter, each week that a business sells or offers to sell prescription drugs to the public contrary to the provisions of this Chapter or any regulation issued under this Chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
(Added by Ord. 85-11, File No. 110025, App. 5/31/2011, Eff. 6/30/2011)
CHAPTER 23:
DRINK TAP ORDINANCE
Sec. 2301.Findings.Sec. 2302.Short Title and Purpose.Sec. 2303.Definitions.Sec. 2304.Mandatory Provision of Clean, Free Drinking Water.Sec. 2305.Implementation.
SEC. 2301.  FINDINGS.
	The Board of Supervisors finds that:
 	(a)	The City and County of San Francisco has a longstanding commitment to environmental sustainability through the prohibition of bottled water purchases by the San Francisco City and County Government, as instructed by Executive Directive 07-07.
 	(b)	The Hetch Hetchy Regional Water System operated by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission delivers pristine drinking water, which is stored in the Hetch Hetchy Reservoir, meets or exceeds all federal and state criteria for drinking water quality, and is tested over 100,000 times per year.
	(c)	Bottled water is bad for the environment. More than one billion water bottles end up in California's trash each year – taking up valuable landfill space, leaking toxic chemicals such as phalates into the ground water, and taking 1,000 years to degrade. It takes an estimated 2,000 times more energy to produce bottled water than it does to produce an equivalent amount of tap water. Bottled water adds to greenhouse gas emissions because high amounts of oil are used to manufacture the plastic bottles, in addition to the emissions resulting from the transportation of the bottles to stores.
	(d)	Bottled water is expensive. Americans spent $10.6 billion on bottled water in 2009 and paid up to 1,000 times the cost of tap water.
	(e)	Bottled water is potentially a health hazard. A growing number of scientific studies are pointing to the harmful effects of chemicals in the plastic that can leach into the water and be consumed. Further, most branded bottled water companies do not disclose their water sources, treatment methods or contaminants found in the water.
	(f)	The City and County of San Francisco is dedicated to being a good environmental steward by promoting water conservation efforts and educating residents about the environmental, economic, and health benefits of drinking tap water.
(Added by Ord. 109-13, File No. 120488, App. 6/21/2013, Eff. 7/21/2013)
SEC. 2302.  SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE.
	(a)	This Chapter shall be entitled "the Drink Tap Ordinance."
	(b)	The purpose of this Chapter is to improve access to clean, free drinking water for residents and visitors of the City and County of San Francisco by providing bottle filling stations.
(Added by Ord. 109-13, File No. 120488, App. 6/21/2013, Eff. 7/21/2013)
SEC. 2303.  DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
	(a) 	"Drink Tap Station" means a bottle filling unit that:
		(1)	Supplies potable water;
		(2)	Delivers a minimum of 8.0 gallons per hour (gph) of ambient water;
		(3)	Is wall or floor mounted and is a separate unit or a combination unit including a drinking fountain; and,
		(4)	Complies with the California Title 24 accessibility standards, is listed by an approved listing agency, and is certified to be lead-free compliant, including NSF/ANSI.61-Annex G, AB1953.
	(b)	"Drinking fountain" means a fixture regulated by Chapter 4 of the California Plumbing Code (Title 24, Part 5, of the California Code of Regulations).
	(c)	"New construction" means a building that has never before been used or occupied for any purpose and does not include additions, alterations, or repairs.
(Added by Ord. 109-13, File No. 120488, App. 6/21/2013, Eff. 7/21/2013)
SEC. 2304.  MANDATORY PROVISION OF CLEAN, FREE DRINKING WATER.
	(a)	For new construction that provides one or more drinking fountains, the project sponsor shall provide a Drink Tap Station with each such fixture installation.
	(b)	This Chapter shall apply to buildings owned by the City, as well as to privately-owned buildings.
(Added by Ord. 109-13, File No. 120488, App. 6/21/2013, Eff. 7/21/2013)
SEC. 2305.  IMPLEMENTATION.
	(a)	The Public Utilities Commission, the Department of Building Inspection, and the Department of the Environment shall be responsible for the implementation of this Chapter, as further directed below.
	(b)	The Director of the Department of the Environment and the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission shall be responsible for conducting outreach to building owners, developers, contractors, and others to make them aware of the requirements of this Chapter, and for providing them with a list of vendors who sell Drink Tap Stations, which list shall be developed by the General Manager.
	(c)	The Director of the Department of Building Inspection shall be responsible for notifying developers, contractors, and others of the requirements of this Chapter when such persons request a building permit.
	(d)	The Director of the Department of Building Inspection shall be responsible for the enforcement of this Chapter. The Director shall not issue any permit or first certificate of occupancy for any new construction that is subject to the requirements of this Chapter unless and until the Director first certifies that the project complies with the requirements of this Chapter. For projects under the exclusive jurisdiction of another City department, the head of that department shall first certify that the project complies with the requirements of this Chapter before issuing any permit or first certificate of occupancy for any new construction or granting any equivalent project approval.
	(e)	The Director of the Department of Building Inspection shall also keep a log of all Drink Tap Stations installed during the first three years of this Chapter and provide to the Board of Supervisors an annual report on total installations under this Chapter for the same three years.
(Added by Ord. 109-13, File No. 120488, App. 6/21/2013, Eff. 7/21/2013)
References to Ordinances
Ordinances Affecting the Environment Code
Publisher's Note:  The following table lists all ordinances affecting the Environment Code passed by the Board of Supervisors beginning in 2011. The table includes links to the ordinances (as maintained in PDF format on the Board of Supervisors' web site) and to the code sections affected. For other legislation, including older ordinances and those affecting other codes, please refer to the Comprehensive Ordinance Table or the Board's "Legislation Passed" web site.
Jump to:
2011 Ordinances
2012 Ordinances
2013 Ordinances

New Ordinances
2011
Ord. No.File No.Eff. DateShort Title and Code Sections Affected6-1110141902/06/11Environment Code - Cell Phones; Retailers' Duty to Disclose Specific Absorption Rate Values

Sections Affected:
1103, 1105 (Amended)7-1110076102/06/11Environment Code - Restrictions on Pesticide Use

Sections Affected:
310 (Added); 300 to 306, 308 (Amended); 307 (Repealed)17-1110110503/20/11Environment Code - Existing Commercial Buildings Energy Performance

Sections Affected:
Ch. 20, Secs. 2000 to 2009 (Added)78-1111011406/18/11

[Oper. 5/1/12]Environment Code - Yellow Pages Distribution Pilot Program

Sections Affected:
Ch. 21, Secs. 2101, 2102, 2103, 2104, 2105, 2106, 2107, 2108 (Added)85-1111002506/30/11Environment Code - Safe Drug Disposal Information

Sections Affected:
Ch. 22, Secs. 2250, 2251, 2252, 2253, 2254 (Added)165-1111065609/02/11Environment Code - Cell Phone Disclosure Requirements

Sections Affected:
1101, 1102, 1103, 1104, 1105 (Amended)204-1111085411/10/11Environment Code - Green Building Requirements for City Buildings

Sections Affected:
711, 712, 713 (Added); 700, 701, 702, 703, 704, 705, 706, 707, 708, 709, 710 (Amended); 705.1, 705.2, 705.3, 705.4, 705.5 (Repealed)
2012
Ord. No.File No.Eff. DateShort Title and Code Sections Affected33-1210105503/22/11

[Oper. 10/1/12]Environment Code - Checkout Bags and Checkout Bag Charge

Sections Affected:
1703.5 (Added); 1702, 1704 (Amended)46-1211102904/15/12Environment Code - Tenant Bicycle Parking in Existing Commercial Buildings

Sections Affected:
402 (Added); 400 (Amended)245-1212102901/06/13Environment Code - Suspending Yellow Pages Distribution Pilot Program

Sections Affected:
2109 (Added)
2013
Ord. No.File No.Eff. DateShort Title and Code Sections Affected109-1312048807/21/13Environment Code - Bottle Filling Stations

Sections Affected:
Ch. 23, Secs. 2301, 2302, 2303, 2304, 2305 (Added)179-1313018609/06/13Environment Code - Repealing Yellow Pages Distribution Pilot Program 

Sections Affected:
2101, 2102, 2103, 2104, 2105, 2106, 2107, 2108, 2109 (Repealed)183-1313052809/06/13Planning, Environment Codes - Bicycle Parking Standards; In Lieu Fee 

Sections Affected:
402 (Amended) 
New Ordinances
Publisher's Note:  The following table lists all ordinances affecting the Environment Code that have been passed by the Board of Supervisors but that are not yet effective. The table includes links to the amending ordinances (as maintained in PDF format on the Board of Supervisors' web site) and to the code sections affected. For other legislation, including older ordinances and those affecting other codes, please refer to the Comprehensive Ordinance Table or the Board's "Legislation Passed" web site.

Ord. No.File No.Eff. DateShort Title and Code Sections Affected[None] 