
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
MUNICIPAL CODE

PUBLIC WORKS CODE
The San Francisco Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 271-13, File No. 131031, approved November 27, 2013, effective December 27, 2013, operative January 1, 2014.
The Public Works Code was last amended by Ordinance 260-13, File No. 130814, approved November 14, 2013, effective December 14, 2013.


AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
432 Walnut Street, Suite 1200
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202-3909
(800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
www.amlegal.com

THE SAN FRANCISCO CODES
The following San Francisco Codes are published by American Legal:
The Municipal Code:
1996 Charter
Administrative Code
Business and Tax Regulations Code
Campaign and Governmental Conduct Code
Environment Code
Fire Code
Health Code
Municipal Elections Code
Park Code
Planning Code (including Zoning Maps)
Police Code
Port Code
Public Works Code
Subdivision Code
Transportation Code

Building Inspection Commission Codes:
Building Code
Electrical Code
Green Building Code
Housing Code
Mechanical Code
Plumbing Code

Comprehensive Ordinance List

PREFACE TO THE PUBLIC WORKS CODE 
	This electronic version of the City and County of San Francisco Municipal Code is updated as amending legislation is approved. New Ordinance Notices are inserted where applicable to call the user's attention to material that has been affected by legislation that has been passed but is not yet effective. Any references to such legislation are also compiled in a table at the end of this Code. The amendments are then incorporated into the Code when they become effective.
	Beginning with ordinances passed in 2011, all ordinances affecting this Code are summarized in a table that lists the identifying information (ordinance and file numbers), effective date, short title, and sections affected for each such ordinance. Users should note that the operative date of an ordinance may be later than the effective date of the ordinance. A delayed operative date will be noted in the ordinance.
	This Code may contain various Editor's Notes (explaining the disposition of or cross referencing various provisions), and/or Codification Notes (documenting scrivener's errors and the like found in the underlying ordinances). Such notes have been inserted by the publisher for the convenience of the user or as historical references. They have not been approved or adopted by the City and County of San Francisco, and are of no legal force or effect.
Article1.GENERAL REQUIREMENTS2.PUBLIC CONTRACT PROCEDURE (SEE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE)2.1.PERMIT FEES AND OCCUPANCY ASSESSMENTS2.3.HUNTERS POINT SHIPYARD2.4.EXCAVATION IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY3.REGULATIONS IN REGARD TO WORKING CONDITIONS (SEE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE)4.SEWERS4.1.INDUSTRIAL WASTE4.2.SEWER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT4.3.SEWERS5.STREET FLOWER MARKETS5.1.ANTI-LITTER RECEPTACLES5.2.TABLES AND CHAIRS IN PUBLIC SIDEWALK OR ROADWAY AREAS5.3.DISPLAY OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES OR NONFOOD MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS5.4.REGULATION OF NEWSRACKS5.5.DISTRIBUTION OF FREE SAMPLE MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY5.6.POSTING OF SIGNS ON CITY-OWNED LAMP POSTS OR UTILITY POLES5.7.HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION ON PRIVATE PREMISES; DISPLAY OF BANNERS5.8.PERMIT REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE FOOD FACILITIES CONCERNING PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION6.STREET IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE6.1.IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE CODE7.MAINTENANCE DISTRICTS9.UNACCEPTED STREETS11.SPUR TRACKS13.ENGINEERING INSPECTION14.UNDERGROUND PIPES, WIRES AND CONDUITS15.MISCELLANEOUS16.URBAN FORESTRY ORDINANCE16.1.TREE DISPUTE RESOLUTION17.CONTROL OF DUMPS DISPOSING OF MATERIALS FROM CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION18.UTILITY FACILITIES19.PUBLIC TELEPHONE BOOTHS ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS21.RESTRICTION OF USE OF POTABLE WATER FOR SOIL COMPACTION AND DUST CONTROL ACTIVITIES22.RECLAIMED WATER USE23.GRAFFITI REMOVAL24.SHOPPING CARTS25.PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES26.ILLEGAL DUMPING
ARTICLE 1:
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 1.Fair Housing Requirements.
SEC. 1.  FAIR HOUSING REQUIREMENTS.
	When considering an application for a permit under this Code with respect to the development of "dwellings" as defined in Chapter 87 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, the Department of Public Works shall comply with that Chapter which requires, among other things, that the Department of Public Works not base any decision regarding the development of "dwellings" in which "protected class" members are likely to reside on information which may be discriminatory to any member of a "protected class" (as all such terms are defined in Chapter 87 of the San Francisco Administrative Code). 
(Added by Ord. 303-99, File No. 990494, App. 12/3/99)
ARTICLE 2:
PUBLIC CONTRACT PROCEDURE
(SEE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE)
ARTICLE 2.1:
PERMIT FEES AND OCCUPANCY ASSESSMENTS
Sec. 2.1.1.Fees.Sec. 2.1.2.Fee and Assessment Review and Adjustment.Sec. 2.1.3.Additional Fees.Sec. 2.1.4.Fee and Occupancy Assessment Calculation Method.
SEC. 2.1.1.  FEES.
	Notwithstanding the permit fee provisions listed elsewhere in this Code, the permit fee and assessment schedule for the permit categories and uses specifically listed below shall be: 
	(a)	Street Flower Market Permit pursuant to Article 5 (Sections 155 et seq.): $103.36 administrative fee and inspection fee of $6.75 per square foot of occupancy; 
	(b)	Tables and Chairs Permit pursuant to Article 5.2 (Sections 176 et seq.): administrative fee of $52.00 for permit renewal without prior Department enforcement action and $104.00 for new permits or permit renewal resulting from prior Department enforcement action; and inspection fee of $4.80 per square foot of occupancy for renewal permits without prior Departmental enforcement action, $5.67 per square foot of occupancy for new permits, and $6.77 per square foot of occupancy for permit renewal resulting from prior Departmental enforcement action; 
	(c)	Display Merchandise Permit pursuant to Article 5.3 (Sections 183 et seq.): $112.95 administrative fee and inspection fee of $7.34 per square foot of occupancy; 
	(d)	Street Improvement Permit in an accepted or unaccepted right-of-way in order to satisfy requirements under Sections 416, 706, 708, and 724.2: $1010.03 permit fee; 
		(i)	Street Improvement Permit for Sidewalk Repair that is not the subject of a Departmental Notice to Repair: $15.99 per 100 square feet permit fee; 
	(e)	Special Sidewalk Permit pursuant to Section 703.1: $376.14 permit fee;
	(f)	Automobile Runway (Driveway) Permits (also known as Curb Reconfiguration Permits) pursuant to Sections 715 et seq.
		(i)	Standard Permit: $120.43 permit fee; and
		(ii)	Over-wide Driveway Permit: $969.30 permit fee;
	(g)	Pipe Barrier Permit pursuant to Section 723.1
		(i)	Standard Permit: $969.30 permit fee; and
		(ii)	Security Bollard Barrier: $1,943.80 permit fee;
	(h)	Minor Sidewalk Encroachment Permit (also known as a Minor Encroachment Permit) pursuant to Section 723.2
		(i)	Standard Permit: $938.39 permit fee, and, if applicable pursuant to Section 723.2(m), the annual public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee; 
		(ii)	Underground Storage Tank Abandonment: $275.80 permit fee; and
		(iii)	Underground Vault, which shall be comprised of (A) a permit fee of $973.80 and (B) an annual public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee of $12.58 per square foot of occupied space; 
	(i)	Debris Box Permit pursuant to Section 725
		(i)	7-day Permit: $83.12 permit fee; and
		(ii)	Annual Permit: $551.62 permit fee;
	(j)	Street Encroachment Permit (also known as a Major Encroachment Permit) pursuant to Section 786: $3,643.66 permit fee and the annual public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee in Section 786.7; 
	(k)	Commemorative Plaque Permit pursuant to Section 789.2: $1,162.63 permit fee;
	(l)	If any of the abovementioned permits are associated with a Street Improvement Permit, the permit fee is the Street Improvement Permit fee plus $133.20 for each additional permit unless the fee for said permit is less, in which case the additional fee is the lower permit fee amount; 
	(m)	Under permit categories in Subsections (d), (e), or (f), if the permit is associated with a Department of Public Works Notice to Repair, the permit fee is $330.32 per permit; 
	(n)	Under permit categories in Subsections (e), (g), or (h)(i), if the permit is associated with a subdivision map approval, the permit fee is $133.20 per permit; and
	(o)	Sidewalk width change fee:  $3,875.00, with $1,375.00 of this fee allocated to the Planning Department for its review.
(Added by Ord. 151-03, File No. 030830, 6/27/2003; amended by Ord. 197-07, File No. 070811, App. 8/3/2007; Ord. 7-08, File No. 071521, App. 1/18/2007; Ord. 34-12, File No. 111281, App. 2/21/2012, Eff. 3/22/2012) 
SEC. 2.1.2.  FEE AND ASSESSMENT REVIEW AND ADJUSTMENT.
	(a)	Beginning with fiscal year 2008-2009, the fees and occupancy assessment costs which are established for the permit categories and uses set forth in section 2.1.1 for fiscal year 2007-2008 may be adjusted each year, without further action by the Board of Supervisors, to reflect changes in the relevant Consumer Price Index, as determined by the Controller. No later than April 15th of each year, the Director shall submit the Department's current fees and occupancy assessment costs schedule to the Controller, who shall apply the price index adjustment to produce a new fee schedule and occupancy assessment for the following year. No later than May 15th of each year, the Controller shall file a report with the Board of Supervisors reporting the new fee schedule and occupancy assessment and certifying that: (a) the fees produce sufficient revenue to support the costs of providing the services for which the fee is charged and (b) the fees do not produce revenue that exceeds the costs of providing the services for which each permit fee is charged. Notwithstanding the procedures set forth in this Section, the Board of Supervisors, in its discretion, may modify the fees or occupancy assessment costs by ordinance at any time. 
(Added by Ord. 151-03, File No. 030830, 6/27/2003; Ord. 197-07, File No. 070811, App. 8/3/2007)
SEC. 2.1.3.  ADDITIONAL FEES.
	In instances where administration or processing of any permit is or will exceed the fee amount established pursuant to section 2.1.1, the Director, in his or her discretion, may require an applicant or permittee to pay a sum in excess of the subject fee amounts. This additional sum shall be sufficient to recover actual costs that the Department incurs and shall be charged on a time and materials basis. The Director also may charge for any time and materials costs that other agencies, boards, commissions, or departments of the City incur in connection with the processing or administration of a particular application or permit. Whenever additional fees are or will be charged, the Director, upon request of the applicant or permittee, shall provide in writing the basis for the additional fees or an estimate of the additional fees to be charged. 
(Added by Ord. 151-03, File No. 030830, 6/27/2003)
SEC. 2.1.4.  FEE AND OCCUPANCY ASSESSMENT CALCULATION METHOD.
	Establishment of the fees for each permit category and use specified in section 2.1.1 shall be based on the Department's actual costs to process and administer the particular permit category or use. Said fees may include the actual costs that other agencies, boards, commissions, or departments of the City incur in connection with the processing or administration of a particular permit category or use. The occupancy assessment costs specified in section 2.1.1 shall be based on fair market value. The Director shall codify the fee and assessment schedule by departmental order. Any adjustment in fees and assessments pursuant to section 2.1.2 also shall be codified by departmental order. The fee and assessment schedule shall be effective on the date that the departmental order is issued, but in no case shall the schedule become effective before the beginning of the fiscal year for which the schedule has been established or adjusted. 
(Added by Ord. 151-03, File No. 030830, 6/27/2003)
ARTICLE 2.2:
[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 2.3:
HUNTERS POINT SHIPYARD
Sec. 2.3.1.Hunters Point Shipyard Permitting.Sec. 2.3.2.Permit Approval.Sec. 2.3.3.Permit Application Notification.
SEC. 2.3.1.  HUNTERS POINT SHIPYARD PERMITTING.
	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, applicants for any permit for Hunters Point Shipyard, which involves subsurface disturbance of soil or the extraction or management of groundwater, except where such permit is for purposes of environmental characterization, and except, in the case of property determined by the applicable ROD to be suitable for unrestricted residential use, where such permit involves subsurface disturbance of less than 50 cubic yards (38.23m3) of soil, shall comply with the requirements of Article 31 of the Health Code. Hunters Point Shipyard is that area of the City and County of San Francisco shown on Article 31 Map - Figure 1, which is maintained for public distribution by the Director. A copy of said figure is on file with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors in File No. 100576. 
(Added by Ord. 300-04, File No. 041538, App. 12/24/2004; Ord. 205-10, File No. 100576, App. 8/3/2010)
SEC. 2.3.2.  PERMIT APPROVAL.
	No permit application subject to the requirements of this Section 2.3.1 shall be deemed to be complete until the Department receives written notification from the Director of Public Health that the applicant has complied with all applicable provisions of Article 31 of the Health Code. Approvals or conditions imposed in writing by Department of Public Health shall become conditions of the permit issued by the Department, and violation of such approvals or conditions shall be deemed a violation of the permit. 
(Added by Ord. 300-04, File No. 041538, App. 12/24/2004)
SEC. 2.3.3.  PERMIT APPLICATION NOTIFICATION.
	All applications for permits subject to Section 2.3.1 shall bear notice of the above requirements and of the permittee's responsibility to comply. 
(Added by Ord. 300-04, File No. 041538, App. 12/24/2004)
ARTICLE 2.4:
EXCAVATION IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
SUBARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONSSec. 2.4.1.Excavation in the Public Right-of-Way.Sec. 2.4.2.Permits Required to Excavate.Sec. 2.4.3.Department Orders and Regulations.Sec. 2.4.4.Definitions.SUBARTICLE II
APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO PERFORM AN EXCAVATIONSec. 2.4.10.Applications.Sec. 2.4.11.Coordination of Excavation.Sec. 2.4.12.Joint Excavation.Sec. 2.4.13.Transit, Pedestrian, Bicycle, and Stormwater Improvements as Part of Planning, Construction, Reconstruction, and Repaving Projects.SUBARTICLE III
PERMITS TO EXCAVATESec. 2.4.20.Action on Applications for Permits to Excavate.Sec. 2.4.20.1.Terms and Limitations.Sec. 2.4.20.2.Duration and Validity.Sec. 2.4.20.3.Permit Amendments.Sec. 2.4.20.4.Nontransferability of Permits.Sec. 2.4.21.Moratorium Streets.Sec. 2.4.22.Emergency Excavation.Sec. 2.4.23.Liability and Indemnification.Sec. 2.4.24.Permit to be Available at Excavation Site.SUBARTICLE IV
DEPOSITS AND FEESSec. 2.4.40.Deposit.Sec. 2.4.41.Administrative Fee.Sec. 2.4.42.Inspection Fee.Sec. 2.4.43.Additional Fees for Excavation.Sec. 2.4.44.Reserved.Sec. 2.4.45. Report to Board of Supervisors and Procedures for Fee Adjustments.Sec. 2.4.46.Collection, Return, and Refund of Deposit and Fees.SUBARTICLE V
EXCAVATIONSSec. 2.4.50.Notices.Sec. 2.4.51.Notice for Marking of Subsurface Facilities.Sec. 2.4.52.Limits upon Excavation in the Public Right-of-Way.Sec. 2.4.53.Regulations Concerning Excavation Sites.Sec. 2.4.54.Stop Work Order, Permit Modification, and Permit Revocation.Sec. 2.4.55.Restoration of the Public Right-of-Way.SUBARTICLE VI
POST-EXCAVATION REPAIR, MAINTENANCE, AND PAVEMENT FAILURESec. 2.4.70.Repair and Maintenance Obligation of Owner and Agent.Sec. 2.4.71.Subsurface or Pavement Failures.Sec. 2.4.72.Repair by the Department.Sec. 2.4.73.Emergency Remediation by the Department.SUBARTICLE VII
VIOLATION OF ARTICLESec. 2.4.80.Violation of Article.Sec. 2.4.81.Administrative Penalties and Costs.Sec. 2.4.82.Civil Penalties and Fees.Sec. 2.4.83.Criminal Fines.Sec. 2.4.84.Deposit of Penalties into Excavation Fund.Sec. 2.4.85.Suspension of Action on Applications.SUBARTICLE VIII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONSSec. 2.4.90.Abandonment of Underground Facilities, Reports, and Maps.Sec. 2.4.91.Identification of Visible Facilities.Sec. 2.4.92.City's Obligation.Sec. 2.4.93.Time Limitation on Commencement of Actions.Sec. 2.4.94.Severability.
SUBARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 2.4.1.  EXCAVATION IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
	This Article 2.4 shall govern excavation in the public right-of-way within the City that is under the jurisdiction and control of the Department of Public Works. The Director of Public Works shall be responsible for managing the public right-of-way. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.2.  PERMITS REQUIRED TO EXCAVATE.
	(a)	It is unlawful for any person to make or to cause or permit to be made any excavation in any public right-of-way that is under the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works without first obtaining from the Department a permit authorizing such excavation. 
	(b)	The Department shall issue a permit to excavate only if the owner has the legal authority to occupy and use the public right-of-way for the purposes identified in the application for the permit and the owner and its agent, if any, are in compliance with this Article. 
	(c)	No permit to excavate shall be required when an excavation is to be completed within a period of 24 hours or less to install a parking meter, street light, street tree, traffic sign, traffic signal, or utility pole or to repair a utility box in a sidewalk; or when an excavation is in connection with the construction or maintenance of a subsidewalk basement; or when an excavation is performed for the sole purpose of repairing a sidewalk. 
	(d)	Permit requirements pertaining to emergency excavation are addressed in Section 2.4.22.
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.3.  DEPARTMENT ORDERS AND REGULATIONS.
	In addition to the requirements set forth in this Article, the Department may adopt such orders or regulations as it deems necessary in order to preserve and maintain the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience. Each excavation in the public right-of-way pursuant to this Article shall be performed in accordance with the standard plans and specifications of the Department and any Department orders or regulations, except where the Director, in his or her discretion, grants prior written approval to deviate from such standard plans and specifications, orders, or regulations. The Director shall develop guidelines to implement the granting of waivers authorized pursuant to this Article. Furthermore, excavation in the public right-of-way shall conform to the orders, regulations, and rules of the Municipal Transportation Agency. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; Ord. 287-08, File No. 081340, App. 12/5/2008)
SEC. 2.4.4.  DEFINITIONS.
	For purposes of this Article, the following terms shall have the following meanings: 
	(a)	"Agent" shall mean a person or persons authorized to assist an owner in the permitting process or in the performance of an excavation. 
	(b)	"Applicant" shall mean an owner or duly authorized agent of such owner, who has submitted an application for a permit to excavate.
	(c)	"Article" shall mean this Article 2.4 of the Public Works Code.
	(d)	"Block" shall mean that part of the public right-of-way that includes the street area from the property line to the parallel property line in width and extending from the property line of an intersecting street to the nearest property line of the next intersecting street in length. For purposes of this definition, an intersection also shall be considered a "block." 
	(e)	"City" shall mean the City and County of San Francisco.
	(f)	"Department" shall mean the Department of Public Works.
	(g)	"Deposit" shall mean any bond, cash deposit, or other security provided by the applicant in accordance with Section 2.4.40 of this Article. 
	(h)	"Director" shall mean the Director of the Department of Public Works or his or her designee.
	(i)	"Excavation" shall mean any work in the surface or subsurface of the public right-of-way, including, but not limited to opening the public right-of-way; installing, servicing, repairing or modifying any facility(ies) in or under the surface or subsurface of the public right-of-way, and restoring the surface and subsurface of the public right-of-way. 
	(j)	"Facility" or "facilities" shall include, but not be limited to, any and all cables, cabinets, ducts, conduits, converters, equipment, drains, handholds, manholes, pipes, pipelines, splice boxes, surface location markers, tracks, tunnels, utilities, vaults, and other appurtenances or tangible things owned, leased, operated, or licensed by an owner or person, that are located or are proposed to be located in the public right-of-way. 
	(k)	"Large excavation project" shall mean any excavation of more than 1000 square feet.
	(l)	"Major work" shall mean any reasonably foreseeable excavation that will affect the public right-of-way for more than 15 consecutive calendar days. 
	(m)	"Medium excavation project" shall mean any excavation of more than 100 but no greater than 1,000 square feet.
	(n)	"Moratorium street" shall mean any block that has been reconstructed, repaved, or resurfaced by the Department or any other owner or person in the preceding five-year period. 
	(o)	"Municipal excavator" shall mean any agency, board, commission, department, or subdivision of the City that owns, installs, or maintains a facility or facilities in the public right-of-way. 
	(p)	"Owner" shall mean any person, including the City, who owns any facility or facilities that are or are proposed to be installed or maintained in the public right-of-way. 
	(q)	"Permit" or "permit to excavate" shall mean a permit to perform an excavation as it has been approved, amended, or renewed by the Department. 
	(r)	"Permittee" shall mean the applicant to whom a permit to excavate has been granted by the Department in accordance with this Article. 
	(s)	"Person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership, any municipal excavator, or any governmental agency, including the State of California or United States of America. 
	(t)	"Public right-of-way" shall mean the area across, along, beneath, in, on, over, under, upon, and within the dedicated public alleys, boulevards, courts, lanes, roads, sidewalks, spaces, streets, and ways within the City, as they now exist or hereafter will exist and which are or will be under the permitting jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works. 
	(u)	"Responsible party" shall mean the owner for each excavation involving the owner's facility or facilities. In addition, it shall mean any person who performs an excavation or has a duty or right to manage or participate in the management of an excavation and whom the Director designates as responsible, in whole or in part, for such excavation. 
	(v)	"Sidewalk" shall mean the area between the fronting property line and the back of the nearest curb.
	(w)	"Small excavation project" shall mean any excavation of 100 square feet or less.
	(x)	"Utility excavator" shall mean any owner whose facility or facilities in the public right-of-way are used to provide electricity, gas, information services, sewer service, steam, telecommunications, traffic controls, transit service, video, water, or other services to customers regardless of whether such owner is deemed a public utility by the California Public Utilities Commission. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SUBARTICLE II
APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO PERFORM AN EXCAVATION
SEC. 2.4.10.  APPLICATIONS.
	(a)	Applications shall be submitted in a format and manner specified by the Department and shall contain:
		(i)	The name, address, telephone, and facsimile number of the applicant. Where an applicant is not the owner of the facility to be installed, maintained, or repaired in the public right-of-way, the application also shall include the name, address, telephone, and facsimile number of the owner; 
		(ii)	A description of the location, purpose, method of excavation, and surface and subsurface area of the proposed excavation;
		(iii)	A plan showing the proposed location and dimensions of the excavation and the facilities to be installed, maintained, or repaired in connection with the excavation, and such other details as the Department may require; 
		(iv)	A copy or other documentation of the franchise, easement, encroachment permit, license, or other legal instrument that authorizes the applicant or owner to use or occupy the public right-of-way for the purpose described in the application. Where the applicant is not the owner of the facility or facilities to be installed, maintained, or repaired, the applicant must demonstrate in a form and manner specified by the Department that the applicant is authorized to act on behalf of the owner; 
		(v)	The proposed start date of excavation;
		(vi)	The proposed duration of the excavation, which shall include the duration of the restoration of the public right-of-way physically disturbed by the excavation; 
		(vii)	Written acknowledgment that all material to be used in the excavation, installation, maintenance, or repair of facilities, and restoration of the public right-of-way will be on hand and ready for use so as not to delay the excavation and the prompt restoration of the public right-of-way; 
		(viii)	Written acknowledgment that the owner and its agent, if any, are in compliance with all terms and conditions of this Article, the orders, regulations, and standard plans and specifications of the Department, and that the owner and its agent are not subject to any outstanding assessments, fees, penalties that have been finally determined by the City or a court of competent jurisdiction; 
		(ix)	A current Business Tax Registration Certificate issued by the San Francisco Tax Collector pursuant to Section 1003 of Part III of the San Francisco Municipal Code for the owner and its agent, if any; 
		(x)	Evidence of insurance as required by Section 2.4.23 of this Article;
		(xi)	A deposit as required by Section 2.4.40 of this Article;
		(xii)	Any other information that may reasonably be required by the Department.
	(b)	The Department may allow an applicant to maintain documents complying with Subsections (iv), (ix), (x), and (xi) on file with the Department rather than requiring submission of such documents with each separate application. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.11.  COORDINATION OF EXCAVATION.
	(a)	Five-Year Plans.
		(i)	On the first day of April and October, or the first regular business day immediately thereafter, each utility and municipal excavator shall prepare and submit to the Department a plan, in a format specified by the Department, that shows all major work anticipated to be done in the public right-of-way in the next five years. Any utility or municipal excavator that does not propose major work in the next five years shall submit a plan with a statement that no such major work is anticipated and shall immediately report any major work to the Department as soon as it becomes reasonably foreseeable. 
		(ii)	The Department may disclose information contained in a five-year plan to any utility excavator or municipal excavator only on a need-to-know basis in order to facilitate coordination among excavators and to avoid unnecessary excavation in City streets. To the maximum extent permissible under federal, State, and local laws applicable to public records, the City shall not otherwise disclose to the public any information contained in a five-year plan submitted by a utility excavator that is proprietary, trade secret or is otherwise protected from disclosure; provided, however that the City shall have no duty to decline to disclose any information that the utility excavator has not identified on its face as proprietary, trade secret or otherwise protected from disclosure. The Department shall notify a utility excavator of any request for inspection of public records that calls for disclosure of any five-year plan on which any information has been identified as proprietary, trade secret or otherwise protected from disclosure. The Department shall consult with the City Attorney regarding any such request and shall inform the affected utility excavator either that the Department will refuse to disclose the protected information or, if there is no proper basis for such refusal, that the Department intends to disclose the requested information unless ordered otherwise by a court. 
	(b)	Department Repaving Plans.
		(i)	The Department shall prepare a five-year repaving plan showing all proposed repaving and reconstruction of the public right-of-way. The Department's repaving plan shall be revised and updated on a semiannual basis after receipt of the five-year plans from utility and municipal excavators. In order to facilitate coordination and minimize the cost of excavation, the Department shall make its repaving plan available for public inspection. 
		(ii)	At least one hundred twenty calendar days prior to undertaking the repaving and reconstruction of any block, the Department shall send a notice of the proposed repaving and reconstruction to each utility and municipal excavator. 
	(c)	Coordination.
		(i)	The Department shall review the five-year plans and identify conflicts and opportunities for coordination of excavations. The Department shall notify affected owners and permittees of such conflicts and opportunities to the extent necessary to maximize coordination of excavation. Each applicant shall coordinate, to the extent practicable, with each potentially affected owner and permittee to minimize disruption in the public right-of-way. 
		(ii)	When two or more applicants coordinate major work in the same block so that, in the opinion of the Department, such major work minimizes disruption to the affected neighborhood, and is likely to qualify the block for repaving, the Department shall make its best effort to schedule the affected block for repaving. Such scheduling shall occur, to the extent funds are available in the Street Damage Restoration Fund, so that the applicants may qualify for a waiver of the street damage restoration fee under Section 2.4.44(b)(ii). Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this subsection shall interfere with the Department's authority to allocate available repaving resources in a manner that it determines best serves the public interest. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.12.  JOINT EXCAVATION.
	(a)	Municipal Excavators. Whenever two or more municipal excavators propose major work in the same block within a five-year period, such work shall be performed by one municipal excavator. The participants to the excavation shall pay their pro rata share of the work. For purposes of this subsection, the municipal excavators shall be treated as a single applicant and shall submit one application. 
	(b)	Utility Excavators. Whenever two or more utility excavators propose major work in the same block within a five-year period, such work shall be performed by one utility excavator. For purposes of this subsection, the utility excavators shall be treated as a single applicant and shall submit one application. 
	(c)	Municipal Excavator and Utility Excavator. Whenever a municipal excavator(s) and a utility excavator(s) propose major work in the same block within a five-year period, the Department shall condition permits for such work in a manner that maximizes coordination and minimizes the total period of construction. 
	(d)	Waiver of Joint Excavation Requirements. Applicants may seek a waiver of the joint excavation requirements with respect to a particular excavation. Within 30 calendar days of receipt of a written request for a waiver, the Director, in his or her discretion, may grant a waiver to the joint excavation requirements for good cause. In making his or her decision on the request for waiver, the Director shall consider the impact of the proposed excavation on the neighborhood, the applicant's need to provide services to a property or area, facilitating the deployment of new technology as directed pursuant to official City policy, and the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience. The Director shall indicate in written, electronic, or facsimile communication the basis for granting any waiver pursuant to this subsection. The Director may place additional conditions on any permit(s) subject to a waiver, including, but not limited to, the charging of additional fees pursuant to Section 2.4.43. The Director's decision regarding waivers of the joint excavation requirements shall be final. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.13.  TRANSIT, PEDESTRIAN, BICYCLE, AND STORMWATER IMPROVEMENTS AS PART OF PLANNING, CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, AND REPAVING PROJECTS.
	(a)	Whenever the Department or other Municipal Excavator undertakes a project involving the planning, construction, reconstruction, or repaving of a public right-of-way, such project shall include, to the maximum extent practicable and feasible, the following transit, pedestrian, bicycle, and stormwater improvements: 
		(1)	Street and pedestrian-scale sidewalk lighting;
		(2)	Pedestrian and bicycle safety improvement measures, as established in any official City adopted bicycle or pedestrian safety plan or other City adopted planning documents; 
		(3)	Appropriate access in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act;
		(4)	Public transit facilities accommodation, including, but not limited to designation of the right-of-way as a transit preferential street designation or bus rapid transit corridor; 
		(5)	Traffic calming devices;
		(6)	Landscaping;
		(7)	Low-impact design stormwater facilities consistent with the Stormwater Design Guidelines;
		(8)	Other pedestrian and streetscape elements listed as appropriate to the relevant street type as identified and defined in the Better Streets Plan; and 
		(9)	Other street and sidewalk improvements consistent with the City's "Transit First" Policy" (Section 16.102 of the City Charter) and "Better Streets Policy" (Chapter 98.1 of the San Francisco Administrative Code). 
	(b)	The Director, in consultation with the Directors of the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency, Department of Public Health, Planning Department, Department on the Environment, San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, and Mayor's Office on Disability shall develop orders, regulations, or amendments to the Department's Standard Plans and Specifications that address the improvements set forth in Subsection (a). 
	(c)	To the maximum extent practicable and feasible, the Director shall condition all excavation and street improvement permits on the inclusion of the improvements set forth in Subsection (a). If such conditions would exceed the Director's regulatory authority, the Director shall coordinate with other City departments to provide, to the maximum extent practicable and feasible, said improvements on behalf of the City. As part of the decision on any permit or authorization pursuant to the Public Works Code, the Director shall take into account the permit activity's positive and negative impacts on the integration, enhancement, or preservation of the improvements set forth in Subsection (a). 
(Added by Ord. 209-05, File No. 050591, App. 8/18/2005; Ord. 310-10, File No. 101194, App. 12/16/2010)
SUBARTICLE III
PERMITS TO EXCAVATE
SEC. 2.4.20.  ACTION ON APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO EXCAVATE.
	(a)	After receipt of an application for a permit to excavate, the Department, within a reasonable time period, shall determine whether an application is complete. 
	(b)	If the application is deemed to be incomplete, the Department promptly shall advise the applicant in a written, electronic, or facsimile communication of the reasons for rejecting the application as incomplete. 
	(c)	If the application is deemed to be complete, the Department, in its discretion, may deny, approve, or conditionally approve the application. 
		(i)	If the application is approved or conditionally approved, the Department shall issue a permit to the applicant. The Department may condition a permit with specified requirements that preserve and maintain the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience. The Department shall inform the permittee of the basis for such requirements. 
		(ii)	If the application is denied, the Department shall advise the applicant in a written, electronic, or facsimile communication of the basis for denial. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.20.1.  TERMS AND LIMITATIONS.
	The permit shall specify the location, extent, and method of the excavation, the start date and duration of the excavation, the permittee to whom the permit is issued, and any conditions placed on the permit. The terms and conditions of the permit shall include the application, all information submitted therewith, and all Department orders and regulations applicable to the permit. The Department must approve any and all modifications to the permit. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.20.2.  DURATION AND VALIDITY.
	Permits shall be void if the excavation has not begun within 30 calendar days of the start date specified in the permit, if the excavation is not prosecuted diligently to its conclusion, or if the excavation, including restoration, has not been completed within the specified duration; provided, however, that the Director, at his or her discretion, may issue extensions to the start date, the duration of excavation, or both upon written request from the permittee. Such written requests must explain why the work could not be commenced on the start date, completed in the approved number of calendar days, or both; shall specify the additional number of calendar days required to complete the work; and shall be accompanied by applicable fees specified in Subarticle IV. All requests to modify the start date of an excavation shall be made at least five (5) calendar days prior to the excavation start date. All requests to modify the duration of the excavation shall be made at least five (5) calendar days prior to the permit expiration date. Any extension that the Director grants may be subject to additional special conditions, including, but not limited to, conditions that ensure timely completion and coordination of the project. The Director shall not grant requests for extensions to the start date after the permitted start date nor shall the Director grant requests for extensions to the duration of the excavation after the permit expiration date. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.20.3.  PERMIT AMENDMENTS.
	The Director, at his or her sole discretion, may allow amendments to the permit, such as to change the method of construction, to advance the start date of the excavation, or modify permit conditions, upon written request from the permittee. Such requests shall explain the basis for the permit amendment and shall be accompanied by applicable fees specified in Subarticle IV. Any amendments that the Director grants may be subject to additional special conditions, including, but not limited to, conditions that ensure timely completion and coordination of the project. The Director shall not grant requests for amendments to the excavation after the permit expiration date. 
(Added by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.20.4.  NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERMITS.
	Permits are not transferable. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.21.  MORATORIUM STREETS.
	The Department shall not issue any permit to excavate in any moratorium street; provided, however, that the Director, in his or her discretion, may grant a waiver for good cause. The Director is specifically authorized to grant a waiver for an excavation that facilitates the deployment of new technology as directed pursuant to official City policy. The Director shall issue his decision on a waiver within a reasonable period after receipt of a written request for a waiver. The Director may place additional conditions on a permit subject to a waiver, including, but not limited to, the charging of additional fees pursuant to Section 2.4.43. The Director's decision regarding a waiver shall be final. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.22.  EMERGENCY EXCAVATION.
	Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed to prevent any person from taking any action necessary for the preservation of life or property or for the restoration of interrupted service provided by a municipal or utility excavator when such necessity arises during days or times when the Department is closed. In the event that any person takes any action to excavate or cause to be excavated the public right-of-way pursuant to this Section, such person shall apply for an emergency permit within four hours after the Department's offices are first opened. The applicant for an emergency permit shall submit a written statement of the basis of the emergency action and describe the excavation performed and any work remaining to be performed. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.23.  LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
	Each permit, except one obtained by a municipal excavator, shall incorporate by reference and require the owner and its agent, if any, to comply with the liability, indemnity, insurance, and taxable possessory interest provisions set forth below in this Section; provided, however, that the Director, with the concurrence of the City Controller and City Risk Manager, may modify the indemnity and insurance provisions as they pertain to a particular permit. 
	(a)	Liability upon Owner and Agent. Each owner and its agent is wholly responsible for the quality of the excavation performed in the public right-of-way and both the owner and agent are jointly and severally liable for all consequences of any condition of such excavation and any facilities installed in the public right-of-way. The issuance of any permit, inspection, repair, or suggestion, approval, or acquiescence of any person affiliated with the Department shall not excuse any owner or agent from such responsibility or liability. 
	(b)	Indemnification, Defense, and Hold Harmless.
		(i)	Each owner and agent shall agree on its behalf and that of any successor or assign to indemnify, defend, protect, and hold harmless the City, including, without limitation, each of its commissions, departments, officers, agents, and employees (hereinafter in this subsection collectively referred to as "San Francisco") from and against any and all actions, claims, costs, damages, demands, expenses, fines, injuries, judgments, liabilities, losses, penalties, or suits including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and costs (collectively, "claims") of any kind allegedly arising directly or indirectly from: 
			(1)	Any act by, omission by, or negligence of, owner or its agent, contractors, subcontractors, or the officers, agents, or employees such entities, while engaged in the performance of the excavation authorized by the permit, or while in or about the property subject to the permit for any reason connected in any way whatsoever with the performance of the excavation authorized by the permit, or allegedly resulting directly or indirectly from the maintenance or installation of any equipment, facility(ies), or structures authorized under the permit; 
			(2)	Any accident, damage, death, or injury to any contractor or subcontractor, or any officer, agent or employee of either of them, while engaged in the performance of the excavation authorized by the permit, or while in or about the property for any reason connected with the performance of the excavation authorized by the permit, or arising from liens or claims for services rendered or labor or materials furnished in or for the performance of the excavation authorized by the permit; 
			(3)	Any accident, damage, death, or injury to any person(s) or accident, damage, or injury to any real or personal property in, upon, or in any way allegedly connected with the excavation authorized by the permit from any cause or claims arising at any time; and, 
			(4)	Any release or discharge, or threatened release or discharge, of any hazardous material caused or allowed by permittee about, in, on, or under the excavation site subject to the permit or the environment. As used herein, "hazardous material" means any gas, material, substance, or waste which, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical or chemical characteristics, is deemed by any federal, state, or local governmental authority to pose a present or potential hazard to human health or safety or to the environment. "Release" when used with respect to hazardous materials shall include any actual or imminent disposing, dumping, emitting, emptying, escaping, injecting, leaching, leaking, pumping, pouring, or spilling. 
		(ii)	Upon the request of San Francisco, the owner or its agent, at no cost or expense to San Francisco, must indemnify, defend, and hold harmless San Francisco against any claims, regardless of the alleged negligence of San Francisco or any other party, except only for claims resulting directly from the sole negligence or wilful misconduct of San Francisco. Each owner and its agent specifically acknowledges and agrees that it has an immediate and independent obligation to defend San Francisco from any claims which actually or potentially fall within the indemnity provision, even if the allegations are or may be groundless, false, or fraudulent, which obligation arises at the time such claim is tendered to owner or its agent by San Francisco and continues at all times thereafter. In addition, San Francisco shall have a cause of action for indemnity against each owner and its agent for any costs San Francisco may be required to pay as a result of defending or satisfying any claims that arise from or in connection with the permit, except only for claims resulting directly from the sole negligence or wilful misconduct of San Francisco. Owner and its agent agree that the indemnification obligations assumed under the permit shall survive expiration of the permit or completion of excavation. 
	(c)	Insurance.
		(i)	Each owner or its agent shall maintain in full force and effect, throughout the term of the permit, an insurance policy or policies issued by an insurance company or companies satisfactory to the City's Controller and Risk Manager. Policy or policies shall afford insurance covering all operations, vehicles, and employees, as follows: 
			(1)	Workers' Compensation with employers' liability limits not less than $1,000,000 each accident;
			(2)	Commercial general liability insurance with limits not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage, including contractual liability; personal injury; explosion, collapse, and underground (xcu); products; and completed operations; 
			(3)	Business automobile liability insurance with limits not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage, including owned, nonowned, and hired auto coverage, as applicable; 
			(4)	Contractors' pollution liability insurance, on an occurrence form, with limits not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage and any deductible not to exceed $25,000 each occurrence. 
		(ii)	Said policy or policies shall include the City and its officers and employees jointly and severally as additional insureds, shall apply as primary insurance, shall stipulate that no other insurance effected by the City will be called on to contribute to a loss covered thereunder, and shall provide for severability of interests. Said policy or policies shall provide that an act or omission of one insured, which would void or otherwise reduce coverage, shall not reduce or void the coverage as to any other insured. Said policy or policies shall afford full coverage for any claims based on acts, omissions, injury, or damage which occurred or arose, or the onset of which occurred or arose, in whole or in part, during the policy period. Said policy or policies shall be endorsed to provide 30 calendar days advance written notice of cancellation or any material change to the Department. 
		(iii)	Should any of the required insurance be provided under a claims-made form, the insured owner or its agent shall maintain such coverage continuously throughout the term of the permit, and, without lapse, for a period of three years beyond the expiration or termination of the permit, to the effect that, should occurrences during the term of the permit give rise to claims made after expiration or termination of the permit, such claims shall be covered by such claims-made policies. 
		(iv)	Should any of the required insurance be provided under a form of coverage that includes a general annual aggregate limit or provides that claims investigation or legal defense costs be included in such general annual aggregate limit, such general aggregate limit shall be double the occurrence or claims limits specified above in Subsection (c)(i). 
		(v)	Such insurance shall in no way relieve or decrease owner's and its agent's obligation to indemnify the City under Subsection (b) or any other provision of this Article. 
		(vi)	Certificates of insurance, in the form satisfactory to the Department, evidencing all coverages above, shall be furnished to or maintained on file with the Department before issuance of a permit, with complete copies of policies furnished promptly upon the Department's request. 
		(vii)	Where an owner is self-insured, and such insurance is no less broad and affords no less protection to the City than the requirements specified above in Subsection (c), the Department, in consultation with the City's Controller and Risk Manager, may accept such insurance as satisfying the requirements of Subsection (c). Evidence of such insurance shall be provided in the manner specified in Subsection (c)(vi). 
	(d)	Taxable Possessory Interest. Each owner shall acknowledge on its behalf and that of any successor or assign that its permit incorporates the following statements: The owner of the facility(ies) for which the permit to excavate was obtained recognizes and understands that the permit may create a possessory interest subject to property taxation and that owner may be subject to the payment of property taxes levied on such interest under applicable law. Owner agrees to pay taxes of any kind, including possessory interest taxes, if any, that may be lawfully assessed on owner's interest under the permit to excavate or for use of the public right-of-way and to pay other excises, licenses, taxes, or permit charges or assessments based on owner's usage of the public right-of-way that may be imposed on owner by applicable law. Owner shall pay all of such charges when they become due and before delinquency. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.24.  PERMIT TO BE AVAILABLE AT EXCAVATION SITE.
	The permit or a photo duplicate shall be available for review at the site of the excavation for the duration of the excavation and shall be shown, upon request, to any police officer or any employee of a City agency, board, commission, or department with jurisdictional responsibility over activities in the public right-of-way. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SUBARTICLE IV
DEPOSITS AND FEES
SEC. 2.4.40.  DEPOSIT.
	Each applicant shall submit and maintain with the Department a bond, cash deposit, or other security acceptable to the Department securing the faithful performance of the obligations of the owner and its agent under any permit(s) to excavate and the compliance with all terms and conditions of this Article (the "deposit"). The deposit shall be in the sum of $25,000 in favor of the "Department of Public Works, City and County of San Francisco." Utility and municipal excavators and other frequent applicants may submit a single deposit for multiple excavations so long as a constant balance of $25,000 is maintained on file with the Department. If the Director has deducted from such a deposit pursuant to Section 2.4.46(c), the utility or municipal excavator or other frequent applicant must restore the full amount of the deposit prior to the Department's issuance of a subsequent permit. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.41.  ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
	Each applicant shall pay to the Department a fee of $66 for each permit issued for a small excavation project, a fee of $83 for each block contained in a medium excavation project, or a fee of $110 for each block contained in a large excavation project. Said fees shall compensate the Department for the cost incurred to administer the provisions of this Article. If the Director grants a permit extension or amendment pursuant to Sections 2.4.20.2 or 2.4.20.3, the permittee shall pay a fee of $66 for any block for which the permit has been extended or amended to cover the cost of additional permit review and administration. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.42.  INSPECTION FEE.
	Each applicant shall pay to the Department a fee of $16 for each permit issued for a small excavation project, a fee of $55 for each calendar day of a medium excavation project, or a fee of $81 for each calendar day of a large excavation project. Said fee shall compensate the Department for the cost of the inspection and regulatory services provided to such applicant when he or she becomes a permittee pursuant to this Article. No inspection fees shall be collected from a municipal excavator when: (a) the municipal excavator pays the Department to manage and inspect the construction or (b) the excavation is to construct, replace, or repair Municipal Railway tracks. If the Director grants a permit extension pursuant to Section 2.4.20.2, the permittee shall pay $16 for a small excavation project or the appropriate fees for a medium or large excavation project for each additional calendar day for which the permit is extended to cover the cost of additional permit inspection. If the Director grants a permit amendment pursuant to Section 2.4.20.3 that results in additional permit inspection, the permittee shall pay the fees specified above for permit extensions. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.43.  ADDITIONAL FEES FOR EXCAVATION.
	In instances where administration of this Article or inspection of an excavation is or will be unusually costly to the Department, the Director, in his or her discretion, may require an applicant or permittee to pay any sum in excess of the amounts charged pursuant to Sections 2.4.41 and 2.4.42. This additional sum shall be sufficient to recover actual costs incurred by the Department and shall be charged on a time and materials basis. The Director also may charge for any time and materials costs incurred by other agencies, boards, commissions, or departments of the City in connection with the administration or inspection of the excavation. Whenever additional fees are charged, the Director, upon request of the applicant or permittee, shall provide in writing the basis for the additional fees and an estimate of the additional fees. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.44.  RESERVED.
Editor's note:
	Ord. 131-07, File No. 070466, Approved June 15, 2007, repealed  2.4.44, which pertained to street damage restoration fee.
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; Ord. 131-07, File No. 070466, App. 6/15/2007)
SEC. 2.4.45.  REPORT TO BOARD OF SUPERVISORS AND PROCEDURES FOR FEE ADJUSTMENTS.
	(a)	Street Damage Restoration Fee Adjustment. Within one year after adoption or amendment of the street damage restoration fee set forth in this Subarticle, and every three years thereafter, the Director shall review the proceeds of the street damage restoration fee and any other new information that shall become available, and prepare a report to the Board of Supervisors. Based upon the result of the review, the Director shall recommend to the Board of Supervisors any necessary adjustments to such fee, along with written justification for the recommended adjustment and any necessary legislation. In the event that fee proceeds have exceeded, or are anticipated to exceed, the costs for street repaving and reconstruction reasonably attributable to excavation, the Director shall recommend legislation to the Board of Supervisors that modifies such fee to ensure that fee proceeds do not exceed the costs for street repaving and reconstruction reasonably attributable to excavation. In the event that fee proceeds have undercollected, or are anticipated to undercollect, for the costs for street repaving and reconstruction reasonably attributable to excavation or the City's costs to administer this Article or inspect excavations, the Director may recommend legislation to the Board of Supervisors that modifies the applicable fee to more accurately recover the costs for street repaving and reconstruction reasonably attributable to excavation. 
	(b)	Administrative and Inspection Fees Adjustments. The procedures to review and adjust the fees specified in Sections 2.4.41 and 2.4.42 shall be the procedures for fee review and adjustment set forth in Section 2.1.2. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002; Ord. 151-03, File No. 030830, 6/27/2003) 
SEC. 2.4.46.  COLLECTION, RETURN, AND REFUND OF DEPOSIT AND FEES.
	(a)	Collection of Deposit and Fees. The Director shall establish procedures for billing, collection, and refund of a deposit(s), fees, and other charges provided for in this Article. The Director shall deposit all funds in accordance with Sections 10.117-119 and 10.117-120 of the San Francisco Administrative Code. 
	(b)	Refunds.
		(i)	When an application is either withdrawn by the applicant or denied by the Department before the start of construction, the applicant's administrative fee assessed under Section 2.4.41 shall be retained and those fees assessed under Sections 2.4.42 and 2.4.43 shall be returned to the applicant. 
		(ii)	In the event that the Director determines, after preparing a report pursuant to Section 2.4.45, that there has been an overcollection of any of the fees identified in this Subarticle, the Director shall establish procedures to refund excess fee proceeds in a manner which fairly and reasonably reimburses those excavators who paid the fee during the relevant period consistent with their level of excavation. 
		(iii)	In the event that a project is completed prior to the permit expiration date, a permittee may make a written request for a refund of the inspection fee that is proportionate to the number of calendar days the project was completed early. Prior to the issuance of any refund, the Department shall verify the date of completion, that the project has been satisfactorily completed, that all punch list work has been completed, and that there are no outstanding fines or penalties pending against the permittee or its agent. The Department shall not release the requested refund until any and all outstanding fines or penalties pending against the permittee and its agent have been paid. The permittee seeking a refund shall pay the Department a fee of $110 for the cost of the calculation and processing of the refund. 
	(c)	Deductions for Deposits. The Director may make deductions from the balance of a permittee's deposit(s) to ensure the faithful performance of the obligations under a permit to excavate, to pay fees, to offset the costs for any excavation done or repairs made by the Department, or to pay any assessed penalties or costs associated with violations of this Article. 
	(d)	Retention of Deposit for Three Years. Each deposit made pursuant to Section 2.4.40 shall be retained by the City for a period of three years after the satisfactory completion of the excavation to secure the obligations in the permit and this Article. 
	(e)	Return of Deposit. Upon expiration of three years from the satisfactory completion of the excavation, a permittee's deposit(s), less the deductions made pursuant to Subsection (c), shall be returned to the permittee or to its assigns. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002; Ord. 131-07, File No. 070466, App. 6/15/2007) 
SUBARTICLE V
EXCAVATIONS
SEC. 2.4.50.  NOTICES.
	Any permittee who excavates or causes to be made an excavation in the public right-of-way shall provide notice as follows: 
	(a)	Two to Fourteen-Day Excavations. For excavations that will be completed and restored in a period exceeding 24 hours but within 14 calendar days of commencement, the permittee shall post and maintain notice at the site of the excavation. The notice shall include the name, telephone number, and address of the owner and its agent, a description of the excavation to be performed, and the duration of the excavation. The notice shall be posted at least every 100 feet along any block where the excavation is to take place at least 72 hours prior to commencement of the excavation. 
	(b)	Notice for Major Work.
		(i)	At least 30 calendar days prior to commencement of the excavation, the permittee shall provide written notice delivered by United States mail to each property owner on the block(s) affected by the excavation and each affected neighborhood and merchant organization that is listed in the City Planning Department's Directory of Neighborhood Organizations and Service Agencies. The latest City-wide assessor's roll for names and addresses of owners shall be used for the mailed notice. This notice shall include the same information that is required for the posted notice pursuant to Subsection (a) and the name, address, and 24-hour telephone number of a person who will be available to provide information to and receive complaints from any member of the public concerning the excavation. 
		(ii)	The permittee shall post and maintain notice at the site of the excavation at least 10 calendar days prior to commencement of the excavation in the same manner and with the same information as required for posted notice pursuant to Subsection (a). At least 10 calendar days prior to commencement of the excavation, the permittee also shall deliver a written notice to each dwelling unit on the block(s) affected by the excavation. This written notice shall include the same information that is required for the written notice pursuant to this Subsection (i). 
		(iii)	Before commencement of construction, a permittee for major work shall post and maintain excavation project signs at the site of the excavation that describe the excavation being done and bear the name, address, and 24-hour telephone number of a contact person for the owner and its agent. Said excavation project signs shall be in format, quantity, and size specified by the Department. 
	(c)	Notice of Emergency Excavation. For emergency excavation, the permittee, or the applicant if a permit has not been issued, shall post and maintain notice at the site of the excavation during the construction period. The notice shall include the name, telephone number, and address of the owner, permittee, applicant, and its agent, a description of the excavation to be performed, and the duration of the excavation. The notice shall be posted at least every 100 feet along any block where the excavation is to take place. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.51.  NOTICE FOR MARKING OF SUBSURFACE FACILITIES.
	In accordance with State law, any person excavating in the public right-of-way shall comply with the requirements of the Underground Service Alert ("USA") regarding notification of excavation and marking of subsurface facilities. Such person shall provide USA with the assigned number for the permit to excavate or other information as may be necessary to properly identify the proposed excavation. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.52.  LIMITS UPON EXCAVATION IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
	(a)	Scope. It is unlawful for any permittee to make, to cause, or permit to be made any excavation in the public right-of-way outside the boundaries, times, and description set forth in the permit. 
	(b)	Rock Wheel and Trenchless Technology. Use of a rock wheel or trenchless technology to excavate in the public right-of-way is unlawful without prior written approval of the Director. 
	(c)	Single Excavation Maximum of 1,200 Feet. No single excavation site shall be longer than 1,200 feet in length at any time except with the prior written approval of the Director. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.53.  REGULATIONS CONCERNING EXCAVATION SITES.
	Each owner and its agent shall be subject to requirements for excavation sites that are set forth in Department orders or regulations. Such orders or regulations shall include, but not be limited to, the following measures: 
	(a)	Protection of the Excavation. Each owner and its agent shall cover open excavation with steel plates ramped to the elevation of the contiguous street, pavement, or other public right-of-way, or otherwise protected in accordance with guidelines prescribed by the Department. 
	(b)	Housekeeping and Removal of Excavated Material. Each owner and its agent shall keep the area surrounding the excavation clean and free of loose dirt or other debris in a manner deemed satisfactory to the Department. Excavation sites shall be cleaned at the completion of each work day. In addition, the owner and its agent shall remove all excavated material from the site of the excavation no later than the end of each work day. 
	(c)	Storage of Materials and Equipment. Materials and equipment that are to be used for the excavation within seven calendar days may be stored at the site of the excavation, except that fill material, sand, aggregate, and asphalt-coated material may be stored at the site only if it is stored in covered, locked containers. 
	(d)	Hazardous Material. Each owner and its agent shall be subject to hazardous material guidelines for date collection; disposal, handling, release, and treatment of hazardous material; site remediation; and worker safety and training. The Department, in consultation with the Department of Public Health, shall develop, prescribe, and update such hazardous material guidelines. The guidelines shall require the owner and its agent to comply with all federal, state, and local laws regarding hazardous material. For purposes of this subsection, "hazardous materials" shall mean any gas, material, substance, or waste which, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical or chemical characteristics, is deemed by any federal, state, or local governmental authority to pose a present or potential hazard to human health or safety or to the environment. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.54.  STOP WORK ORDER, PERMIT MODIFICATION, AND PERMIT REVOCATION.
	When the Director has determined that a person has violated this Article or that an excavation poses a hazardous situation or constitutes a public nuisance, public emergency, or other threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, or when the Director determines that there is a paramount public purpose, the Director is authorized to issue a stop work order, to impose new conditions upon a permit, or to suspend or revoke a permit by notifying the permittee of such action in a written, electronic, or facsimile communication. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.55.  RESTORATION OF THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
	(a)	Restoration. In any case in which the sidewalk, street, or other public right-of-way is or is caused to be excavated, the owner and its agent shall restore or cause to be restored such excavation in the manner prescribed by the orders, regulations, and standard plans and specifications of the Department. At a minimum, trench restoration shall include resurfacing to a constant width equal to the widest part of the excavation in accordance with the following diagram; provided, however, that the width of resurfacing need not exceed 13 feet. Notwithstanding the trench restoration provision set forth herein, if 25 percent of more of the length of any block is excavated, then all affected lanes for the entire block shall be restore. 
	(b)	Backfill, Replacement of Pavement Base, and Finished Pavement. Activities concerning backfilling, replacement of pavement base, and finished pavement shall be performed in a manner specified by the orders, regulations, and standard plans and specifications of the Department. In addition, these activities shall be subject to the following requirements: 
		(i)	Backfill. Each excavation shall be backfilled and compacted within 120 hours from the time the construction related to the excavation is completed. 
		(ii)	Replacement of pavement base. Replacement of the pavement base shall be completed within 120 hours from the time the excavation is backfilled. 
		(iii)	Finished pavement. Finished pavement restoration shall be completed within 120 hours of replacement of the pavement base. 
	(c)	Modification to Requirements. Upon written request from the permittee, the Director may grant written approval for modifications to the requirements of Subsection (b). 
	(d)	Incomplete Excavation; Completion by the Department. In any case where an excavation is not completed or restored in the time and manner specified in the permit, this Article, or the orders, regulations, and standard plans and specifications of the Department, the Director shall order the owner or its agent to complete the excavation as directed within 24 hours. If the owner or its agent should fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with the order, the Director may complete or cause to be completed such excavation in such manner as the Director deems expedient and appropriate. The owner or its agent shall compensate the Department for any costs associated with the administration, construction, consultants, equipment, inspection, notification, remediation, repair, restoration, or any other actual costs incurred by the Department or other agencies, board, commissions, or departments of the City that were made necessary by said excavation. The cost of such work also may be deducted from the permittee's deposit pursuant to Section 2.4.46(c). The Director's determination as to the cost of any work done or repairs made shall be final. In addition, the owner, its agent, or other responsible party may be subject to those enforcement actions set forth in Subarticle VII. 
	(e)	Subject to the limitation set forth in Section 2.4.70, completion of an excavation or restoration by the Department in accordance with Subsection (d) shall not relieve the owner or its agent from liability for future pavement failures at the excavation site. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002; Ord. 131-07, File No. 070466, App. 6/15/2007) 
SUBARTICLE VI
POST-EXCAVATION REPAIR, MAINTENANCE, AND PAVEMENT FAILURE
SEC. 2.4.70.  REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OBLIGATION OF OWNER AND AGENT.
	Each owner and its agent that excavates or causes to be made an excavation in the public right-of-way shall be responsible to maintain, repair, or reconstruct the site of the excavation so as to maintain a condition acceptable to the Director until such time as the public right-of-way is reconstructed, repaved, or resurfaced by the Department. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.71.  SUBSURFACE OR PAVEMENT FAILURES.
	In the event that subsurface material or pavement over or immediately adjacent to any excavation should become depressed, broken, or fail in any way at any time after the excavation has been completed, the Director shall exercise his or her best judgment to determine the person(s) responsible, if any, for the failure in the subsurface or surface of the public right-of-way and shall designate such person as the responsible party. The Director shall notify said person(s) of the condition, its location, and the required remedy, and such person(s) shall repair or restore, or cause to be repaired or restored, such condition to the satisfaction of the Director within 72 hours of the notification. The Director may extend the time for the responsible party to repair or restore the affected public right-of-way. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.72.  REPAIR BY THE DEPARTMENT.
	(a)	In the event that any person(s) fails, neglects, or refuses to repair or restore any condition pursuant to the Director's notice as set forth in Section 2.4.71, the Director may repair or restore, or cause to be repaired or restored, such condition in such manner as the Director deems expedient and appropriate. The person(s) identified by the Director as the responsible party shall compensate the Department for any costs associated with the administration, construction, consultants, equipment, inspection, notification, remediation, repair, restoration, or any other actual costs incurred by the City that were made necessary by reason of the repair or restoration undertaken by the Department. The cost of such work also may be deducted from the permittee's deposit pursuant to Section 2.4.46(c). The Director's determination as to the cost of the repair or restoration performed shall be final. In addition, the responsible party may be subject to those enforcement actions set forth in Subarticle VII. 
	(b)	Subject to the limitation set forth in 2.4.70. repair or restoration by the Department in accordance with this Section shall not relieve the person(s) from liability for future pavement failures at the site of the repair or restoration. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.73.  EMERGENCY REMEDIATION BY THE DEPARTMENT.
	(a)	If, in the judgment of the Director, the site of an excavation is considered hazardous or if it constitutes a public nuisance, public emergency, or other imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare that requires immediate action, the Director may order the condition remedied by a written, electronic, or facsimile communication to the person(s) responsible, if any, for remedying the condition and shall designate such person as the responsible party. 
	(b)	If the responsible party is inaccessible or fails, neglects, or refuses to take immediate action to remedy the condition as specified in said communication, the Director may remedy the condition or cause the condition to be remedied in such manner as the Director deems expedient and appropriate. The person(s) identified by the Director as the responsible party shall compensate the Department for any reasonable costs associated with the administration, construction, consultants, equipment, inspection, notification, remediation, repair, restoration, or any other actual costs incurred by the Department or other agencies, boards, commissions, or departments of the City that were made necessary by reason of the emergency remediation undertaken by the Department. The cost of such work also may be deducted from the permittee's deposit pursuant to Section 2.4.46(c). The Director's determination as to the cost of any remediation performed shall be final. In addition, the responsible party may be subject to those enforcement actions set forth in Subarticle VII. 
	(c)	Subject to the limitation set forth in Section 2.4.70, remediation by the Department in accordance with this Section shall not relieve the person(s) from liability for future pavement failures at the site of the remediation. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SUBARTICLE VII
VIOLATION OF ARTICLE
SEC. 2.4.80.  VIOLATION OF ARTICLE.
	(a)	The Director shall have authority to enforce this Article against violations thereof. Upon the Director's determination that a person has violated any provision of this Article, the standard plans and specifications, notices, orders, or regulations of the Department; any term, condition, or limitation of any permit; or is subject to any outstanding fees, deposits, or other charges, the Director shall serve notice on said person to abate the violation. Any person whom the Director determines to be a responsible party may be subject to any or all of the enforcement mechanisms specified in Section 2.4.81, 2.4.82, and 2.4.83. 
	(b)	Municipal excavators are not subject to the penalties and fines specified in Sections 2.4.82 and .83; however, municipal excavators that violate Article 2.4 may be subject to administrative penalties and costs as specified in Section 2.4.81. The Director is empowered to charge municipal excavators with such penalties and costs, abate violations by municipal excavators, or both. The Director may assess such penalties, costs, and abatement charges against the deposit or budget of the municipal excavator, take other appropriate action against such excavator within the Director's authority, or both. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 239-99, File No. 991177, App. 9/3/99; Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002) 
SEC. 2.4.81.  ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES AND COSTS.
	(a)	Notice of Violation. Except as specified in Subsections (1) through (3) below, the Director shall notify the responsible party for a violation that he or she has seventy-two (72) hours to correct or otherwise remedy the violation or be subject to the imposition of administrative penalties. The Director's notice of violation shall be a written, electronic, or facsimile communication and shall specify the manner in which the violation shall be remedied. 
		(1)	For those violations subject to the incomplete excavation provisions of Section 2.4.55(d), the responsible party shall have twenty-four (24) hours to remedy the violation or be subject to the imposition of administrative penalties. 
		(2)	For violations that create an imminent danger to public health, safety, or welfare or are otherwise subject to Section 2.4.73, the Director shall notify the responsible party to immediately remedy the violation or be subject to the imposition of administrative penalties. 
		(3)	For violations that cannot be cured within seventy-two (72) hours, including, but not limited to, excavating without a permit, the Director shall notify the responsible party of the Director's imposition of administrative penalties pursuant to Subsection (e). 
	(b)	Amount of Administrative Penalties. Administrative penalties assessed pursuant to Subsection (a) shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) per day, per violation commencing with the first day of the violation. Notwithstanding the penalty limitation set forth above, a person who excavates without a valid permit may be assessed a penalty not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per day, per violation commencing with the first day of the violation. In assessing the amount of the administrative penalty, the Director may consider any one or more of the following: the nature and seriousness of the misconduct, the number of violations, the persistence of the misconduct, the length of time over which the misconduct occurred, the wilfulness of the violator's misconduct, and the violator's assets, liabilities, and net worth. 
	(c)	Enforcement Costs. In addition to the administrative penalty assessed pursuant to Subsection (a), the Director may assess enforcement costs to cover the reasonable costs incurred in enforcing the administrative penalty, including reasonable attorneys' fees. Any enforcement costs imposed and recovered shall be distributed according to the purpose for which the Director imposed them. 
	(d)	Accrual of Penalties and Costs. Penalties and costs assessed under this Section shall continue to accrue against a responsible party until the violation of this Article is corrected or otherwise remedied in the judgment of the Director or the responsible party pays the assessed penalties and costs. If such penalties and costs are the subject of a request for administrative review or an appeal, then the accrual of such penalties and costs shall be stayed until the determination concerning the administrative penalties is final. 
	(e)	Notice Imposing Administrative Penalties. If the responsible party fails to remedy the violation within the time specified in the notice of violation or if the violation is incurable pursuant to Section 2.4.81(a)(3), the Director shall notify in writing the responsible party of the Director's imposition of administrative penalties. This notice shall include the amount of the penalties and costs and declare that such penalties and costs are due and payable to the City Treasurer within thirty (30) calendar days. The notice also shall state that the person designated as the responsible party has the right, pursuant to Subsection (g), to request administrative review of the Director's determination as to the designation of the responsible party and the assessment of penalties. 
	(f)	Finality of the Director's Determination and Collection of Assessed Penalties. If no request for administrative review is filed pursuant to Subsection (g), the Director's determination is final. Thereafter, if the penalties and costs are not paid within the time specified in Subsection (e), the Director is empowered to pursue any method of collection of such penalties and costs authorized by local law including, but not limited to deductions of the permittee's deposit pursuant to Section 2.4.46(c). 
	(g)	Administrative Review. Any Person that is designated as the responsible party for a violation or is subject to an administrative penalty may seek administrative review of the designation or the assessment of the penalty or cost within ten (10) calendar days of the date of the notice imposing administrative penalties. Administrative review shall be initiated by filing with the Director a request for review that specifies in detail the basis for contesting the designation of the responsible party or the assessment of the penalty or cost. 
	(h)	Notice for and Scheduling of Administrative Hearing. Whenever an administrative review hearing is requested pursuant to Subsection (g), the Director, within ten (10) calendar days of the date of receipt of the request, shall notify the affected parties of the date, time, and place of the hearing by certified mail. Such hearing shall be held no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the Director received the request for administrative review, unless extended by mutual agreement of the affected parties. The Director shall appoint a hearing officer for such hearing. 
	(i)	Submittals for the Administrative Review Hearing. The parties to the hearing shall submit written information to the hearing officer including, but not limited to, the following: the statement of issues to be determined by the hearing officer and a statement of the evidence to be offered at the hearing. 
	(j)	Conduct of the Administrative Review Hearing. The administrative review hearing is a public hearing and shall be tape recorded. Any party to the hearing may at his or her own expense, cause the hearing to be recorded by a certified court reporter. During the hearing, evidence and testimony may be presented to the hearing officer. Written decisions and findings shall be rendered by the hearing officer within ten (10) calendar days of the hearing. Copies of the findings and decision shall be served upon the parties to the hearing by certified mail. A notice that a copy of the findings and decisions is available for inspection between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday shall be posted at the offices of the Department of Public Works. 
	(k)	Director's Decision on the Hearing Officer's Recommendation. The decision of the hearing officer shall be a recommendation to the Director, and the Director, within five (5) calendar days of receipt of such recommendation, shall adopt, modify, or deny such recommendation. The Director's decision on the hearing officer's recommendation is final. Such decision shall be served upon the parties to the hearing and posted in the same manner as the hearing officer's decision as set forth in Subsection (j). If any imposed administrative penalties and costs have not been deposited at this time, the Director may proceed to collect the penalties and costs pursuant to Subsection (f). 
	(l)	Additional procedures. The Director, by Departmental order, may adopt additional procedures to implement this Section. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 239-99, File No. 991177, App. 9/3/99; Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002) 
SEC. 2.4.82.  CIVIL PENALTIES AND FEES.
	(a)	The Director may call upon the City Attorney to maintain an action for injunction to restrain or summary abatement to cause the correction or abatement of the violation of this Article, and for assessment and recovery of a civil penalty and reasonable attorney's fees for such violation. 
	(b)	Any person who violates this Article may be liable for a civil penalty, not to exceed $500 for each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, which penalty shall be assessed and recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the people of the City by the City Attorney in any court of competent jurisdiction. In assessing the amount of the civil penalty, the court may consider any one or more of the relevant circumstances presented by any of the parties to the case, including, but not limited to, the following: the nature and seriousness of the misconduct, the number of violations, the persistence of the misconduct, the length of time over which the misconduct occurred, the wilfulness of the defendant's misconduct, and the defendant's assets, liabilities, and net worth. The City Attorney also may seek recovery of the attorneys fees and costs incurred in bringing a civil action pursuant to this Section. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.83.  CRIMINAL FINES.
	(a)	The Director is authorized to enforce the criminal provisions of this Article, to call upon the Chief of Police and authorized agents to assist in the enforcement of this Article, or both. 
	(b)	Any person who violates this Article shall be deemed guilty of an infraction. Every violation determined to be an infraction is punishable by (1) a fine not exceeding $100 for the first violation within one year; (2) a fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year from the date of the first violation; (3) a fine not exceeding $500 for the third and each additional violation within one year from the date of the first violation. 
	(c)	When a government official authorized to enforce this Article pursuant to Subsection (a) has reasonable cause to believe that any person has committed an infraction in the official's presence that is a violation of this Article, the official may issue a citation to that person pursuant to California Penal Code, Part II, Title 3, Chapters 5, 5C, and 5D. 
	(d)	Among other violations, citations may be issued for the following specific violations:
		(i)	Excavation without a valid permit;
		(ii)	Excavation without proof of the permit issuance on site;
		(iii)	Excavation without proper notice to the Underground Service Alert;
		(iv)	Excavation without proper public notice;
		(v)	Excavation that violates the San Francisco Traffic Code;
		(vi)	Excavation that violates the regulations concerning excavation sites (Section 2.4.53), which include, but are not limited to, protection of the excavation, housekeeping and removal of excavated material, and hazardous material; 
		(vii)	Excavation that does not meet the requirements for restoration concerning backfill, replacement of pavement base, and finished pavement (Section 2.4.55(b)); or 
		(viii)	Excavation that exceeds the scope of the permit, including, but not limited to, obstructing the path of automobile or pedestrian travel in excess of the permitted area. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SEC. 2.4.84.  DEPOSIT OF PENALTIES INTO EXCAVATION FUND.
	Any penalty assessed and recovered in an action brought pursuant to Sections 2.4.81 or 2.4.82 shall be deposited in the Excavation Fund, as provided in Section 10.117-120 of the San Francisco Administrative Code. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.85.  SUSPENSION OF ACTION ON APPLICATIONS.
	A person who is in wilful noncompliance with this Article shall not apply for nor be issued a permit to excavate in the public right-of-way unless the Director, by written authorization, grants a waiver to this prohibition. Wilful noncompliance shall include, without limitation, deliberate acts that result in failure to: (a) satisfy any terms and conditions of this Article, the orders, regulations, or standard plans and specifications of the Department or (b) pay any outstanding assessments, fees, penalties that have been finally determined by the City or a court of competent jurisdiction. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98; amended by Ord. 33-02, File No. 020051, App. 3/28/2002)
SUBARTICLE VIII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 2.4.90.  ABANDONMENT OF UNDERGROUND FACILITIES, REPORTS, AND MAPS.
	(a)	Whenever any facility(ies) is abandoned in the public right-of-way, the person owning, using, controlling or having an interest therein, shall, within 30 calendar days after such abandonment, file in the office of the Director a statement in writing, giving in detail the location of the facility(ies) so abandoned. Each map, set of maps, or plans filed pursuant to the provisions of this Article, including those maps or plans required by Section 2.4.11 shall show in detail the location of each such facility(ies) abandoned subsequent to the filing of the last preceding map, set of maps, or plans. 
	(b)	It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, refuse, or neglect to file any map or set of maps at the time, and in all respects as required by this Section. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.91.  IDENTIFICATION OF VISIBLE FACILITIES.
	Each visible facility installed in the public right-of-way shall be clearly identified with the name of the owner of the facility. The Department shall adopt orders or regulations to specify other appropriate methods for identification. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.92.  CITY'S OBLIGATION.
	In undertaking enforcement of this Article, the City is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximity caused injury. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.93.  TIME LIMITATION ON COMMENCEMENT OF ACTIONS.
	Any action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, void or annul this Article or any provision thereof shall be commenced within 120 calendar days from the effective date of the ordinance approving this Article; otherwise, the provisions of this Article shall be held to be valid and in every respect legal and incontestable. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 2.4.94.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any part of this Article, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of this Article, including the application of such part or provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect. To this end, provisions of this Article are severable. 
(Added by Ord. 341-98, App. 11/13/98)
ARTICLE 3:
REGULATIONS IN REGARD TO WORKING CONDITIONS
(SEE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE)
ARTICLE 4:
SEWERS
Sec. 102.Definitions.Sec. 103.Ownership and Responsibility for Maintenance.Sec. 103.1.Side Sewer Repair.Sec. 104.Director to Abate Nuisance or Hazard.Sec. 104.1.Recovery of Abatement Costs.Sec. 104.2.Abatement Funds.Sec. 105.Side Sewer Work by Permits.Sec. 106.Connection to Public Sewer in Off-Street Location.Sec. 107.Written Request for Side Sewer.Sec. 108.Estimate of ExpenseFee.Sec. 109.Deposit by Applicant.Sec. 110.MaterialApplicant May FurnishCredit.Sec. 111.Day Labor or Contract.Sec. 112.Expense Exceeding Estimate Constitutes Lien.Sec. 113.Expense Less Than EstimateClaim.Sec. 114.Certificate of Proper ConstructionIssuance Upon Demand.Sec. 115.Resolution of Intention for Side SewersException.Sec. 116.Sewers Constructed From Public FundsProcedure.Sec. 116.1.Sewers Constructed From Public FundsConnection To.Sec. 117.Materials and Construction Requirements.
SEC. 102.  DEFINITIONS.
	For the purpose of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 
	(a)	Nuisance. The discharge of sewage onto the surface of any public street, alley or place including sidewalks is a nuisance. 
	(b)	Hazard. Any cracking, sinking or undermining of the surface of any public street, alley or place including sidewalks caused by any absence, obstruction, failure or defect of any side sewer, private sewer, utility drain or private drainage system constitutes a threat to public safety and is a hazard. 
	(c)	Utility Drain. Any drain connected to a public sewer under the provisions of this Article and which serves a facility or structure installed or constructed under the provisions of Part II, Chapter X, Article 8 of the San Francisco Municipal Code (Public Works Code) is a utility drain. 
	(d)	Side Sewer (also known as lateral sewer). A side sewer is that portion of a sewer from the point of connection to a public sewer to a point of demarcation which shall be the front face of a curb or a curbline of record in a public street, alley or place, or the boundary line of record in an easement for public sewers, except that the point of demarcation shall be the first intersection of a private sewer which serves more than one building, lot or premises. In the absence of a curb or line of record, the Director shall establish a point of demarcation based on like public streets, alleys or places, or easements for public sewers. 
	(e)	Private Sewer. A private sewer is distinguished from a side sewer as being any other private sewer or drain installed in any public street, alley or place including sidewalks, or easements for public sewers. 
	(f)	Reconstruction. Reconstruction shall include any side sewer work which requires alteration of the grade or alignment of an existing side sewer due to relocation of an existing private sewer or the installation of a new private sewer. 
	(g)	Roadway. A roadway is that portion of a public street, alley or place which is open for public vehicular traffic as distinguished from a sidewalk, sidewalk area, walkway, path, trail or private driveway. In an improved public street, alley or place, the roadway is from side curb to side curb. In an unimproved public street, alley or place the roadway shall be from curbline to curbline or such other lines of demarcation as the Director may establish. 
	(h)	Director. The Director of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 114-77, App. 3/31/77)
SEC. 103.  OWNERSHIP AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
	All side sewers, private sewers, or utility drains are the property and maintenance responsibility of the owner or owners of property, facilities or structures tributary thereto. Repairs shall be at sole expense of such owner or owners except as provided in Section 103.1. 
(Added by Ord. 114-77, App. 3/31/77)
SEC. 103.1.  SIDE SEWER REPAIR.
	When the Department of Public Works determines that a repair must be made to a side sewer located in a public roadway or property, or connected to a sewer main located in an easement on private property, the repair shall be made by the Department of Public Works. 
	In the case of a side sewer in a public roadway the Department of Public Works shall be responsible only for that section extending from the side curb or curb line to the sewer main connection. In the case of a side sewer connected to a sewer main on City property or in a City easement on private property, the section of the side sewer subject to such repair shall extend from the nearest property line of the benefited property to the connection with the sewer main. 
	In the event the condition of a side sewer cannot be determined due to the lack of an appropriate vent or vented trap the Department of Public Works shall require the owner or owners to install such a vent or vented trap before making any repair under this Section. 
	The Department of Public Works shall include a provision in the annual budget to cover the estimated costs of making repairs to side sewers as set forth herein in lieu of all fees or deposits as required by Sections 108 and 109 of this Article. 
	This Section shall not be applicable to private sewers and utility drains as defined in Section 102 and referred to in Section 103 hereof. 
(Amended by Ord. 439-82, App. 9/3/82)
SEC. 104.  DIRECTOR TO ABATE NUISANCE OR HAZARD.
	Notwithstanding any other provisions of the San Francisco Municipal Code it shall be the duty of the Director to cause the abatement of a nuisance or hazard as provided in this Section. 
	(a)	When the source of a nuisance or hazard is in or on private property the Director shall direct the Superintendent of the Bureau of Building Inspection to abate the source of such nuisance or hazard in accordance with the provisions of Part II, Chapter VII of the San Francisco Municipal Code (Plumbing Code). The Director shall also notify the Director of Public Health of any such nuisance. The Director shall also abate any such hazard by work in or on public property in accordance with the provisions of Section 104(b) for other sources. 
	(b)	When the source of a nuisance or hazard is any side sewer, private sewer or utility drain the Director shall give written notice to abate. Notice shall be served by mailing said notice to the owner or owners of record of property tributary to a side sewer or private sewer or to the business office in the City and County of San Francisco of the owner of a utility drain. In the case of a side sewer or private sewer public notice shall be provided by posting of copies of said notice in the vicinity of said nuisance or hazard. 
	The notice shall describe said nuisance or hazard, shall direct the owner or owners to abate the nuisance or hazard within 10 days of the mailing of notice and shall advise that the Director will abate the nuisance or hazard if the owner or owners fail to do so. 
	The Director will abate the nuisance or hazard on failure of the owner or owners to do so within the 10 days. 
(Added by Ord. 114-77, App. 3/31/77)
SEC. 104.1.  RECOVERY OF ABATEMENT COSTS.
	(a)	Each notice provided in Section 104 of this Article shall advise the owner or owners of responsibility for the expense of abatement of a nuisance or hazard. Any costs and charges incurred by the City by reason of abatement of a nuisance or hazard by the Director shall be an obligation to the City owing by the owner or owners of tributary property. The Director shall mail to the owner(s) of the tributary property a notice of the amount due and a warning that lien proceedings will be initiated against the property if the amounts due are not paid within 30 days after mailing of the notice. 
	(b)	Liens authorized under this section shall be imposed and collected in accordance with the requirements of Article XX of Chapter 10 of the San Francisco Administrative Code. The amount of such liens, exclusive of administrative costs and charges, shall be in accordance with the applicable provision of the following schedule: 
		(1)	For a side sewer in the roadway of any public street, alley or place, a fee of $200 for each tributary property.
		(2)	For a side sewer other than (1) above, utility drain or private sewer, all costs and charges incurred by the City.
(Added by Ord. 114-77, App. 3/31/77; amended by Ord. 322-00, File No. 001917, App. 12/28/2000)
SEC. 104.2.  ABATEMENT FUNDS.
	Whenever the Director abates a nuisance or hazard at City expense the Director shall use any available fund. Any cost recovery under Section 104.1 shall be deposited to the credit of the fund from which City expense was made for such abatement. 
(Added by Ord. 114-77, App. 3/31/77)
SEC. 105.  SIDE SEWER WORK BY PERMITS.
	It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or to cause, or to permit to be made, any excavation in or under the surface of the roadway of any public street in the City and County of San Francisco for the purpose of constructing, reconstructing or repairing any side sewer or drain therein, or to construct in or under the roadway of any public street any such side sewer or drain or to connect the same with any public sewer or to reconstruct or repair any such side sewer or drain heretofore constructed in or under the roadway of any public street and connected with the public sewer, without first obtaining the following two permits: 
	(a)	A special street opening permit from the Bureau of Engineering of the Department of Public Works, which permit will be issued only upon the filing of an excavation bond to guarantee the maintenance of the trench area, and the payment of a deposit from which inspection expenses will be drawn; 
	(b)	A side sewer permit from the Central Permit Bureau.
	Nothing in this Section or in the Section next following shall limit the operations under a contract let by the Department of Public Works for work in a public street or easement or under a contract for such work which is supervised by that department. 
(Amended by Ord. 180-72, App. 7/5/72)
SEC. 106.  CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER IN OFF-STREET LOCATION.
	Connection of a side sewer to a main public sewer in an easement, or in any off-street location shall not be made without first obtaining a side sewer permit from the Central Permit Bureau of the Department of Public Works. 
(Amended by Ord. 180-72, App. 7/5/72)
SEC. 107.  WRITTEN REQUEST FOR SIDE SEWER.
	In lieu of the provisions of Sections 105 and 106, above, when at any time any person desires the construction in or under the roadway of any public street, public sidewalk or public or private easement in the City and County of San Francisco, of any side sewer or drain and the connection thereof with a main public sewer, or the reconstruction or repair of any such side sewer or drain heretofore constructed and connected with such public sewer, or is required by law to have such construction, reconstruction or repair done or made, such person may in writing, request the Department of Public Works to make or cause to be made such construction, reconstruction or repair. 
(Amended by Ord. 180-72, App. 7/5/72)
SEC. 108.  ESTIMATE OF EXPENSE-FEE.
	Upon such request being so made, it shall be the duty of said department to make an estimate of the expense of opening or tearing up the roadway of the street wherein such construction, reconstruction or repair is to be made and of the restoration of the same to as good a condition as it was in before said opening or tearing up, together with the estimated expense of labor to be performed and materials to be used in such construction, reconstruction or repair, including a fee of $5 to be applied as for services for official supervision. 
SEC. 109.  DEPOSIT BY APPLICANT.
	Such person must thereupon deposit the amount of such estimates, inclusive of said fee, with the Department of Public Works, the same to be paid by said department into the Side Sewer Fund. When such amount shall have been so deposited, it shall be the duty of the said department to proceed to open or tear up the roadway of such street and construct the side sewer or drain so requested, in a proper manner with approved material, and properly connect the same with the public sewer, or to reconstruct or repair the existing side sewer or drain in a proper manner under its supervision, and thereafter said department shall at the proper time restore the said roadway to as good a condition as it was in before such opening or tearing up. 
SEC. 110.  MATERIAL-APPLICANT MAY FURNISH-CREDIT.
	In case such person elects to furnish at his or its own expense any or all of the materials needed for use in such construction, reconstruction or repair, which privilege of such election is hereby expressly accorded, then the estimates hereinbefore provided for shall not include as an item therein the estimated expense of any or all of the said materials to be so furnished. 
SEC. 111.  DAY LABOR OR CONTRACT.
	Contracts for the doing of the aforesaid work or any part thereof may be let by the said Department of Public Works in the manner provided in the Charter of the said City and County or such work or any part of the same may, at the option of said department, be done by days' labor. 
SEC. 112.  EXPENSE EXCEEDING ESTIMATE CONSTITUTES LIEN.
	If the expense of such construction, reconstruction or repair has been more than the aforesaid estimate given by the Department of Public Works, the person shall be indebted to the City and County of San Francisco for such balance; and the same shall constitute a lien upon the property of such person. Said lien shall remain in force until such balance has been paid, or until the lien shall be legally discharged. Said lien may be enforced by suit brought by the said City and County in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of California. 
SEC. 113.  EXPENSE LESS THAN ESTIMATE-CLAIM.
	If the expense of such work has been less than the aforesaid estimate, then the surplus shall constitute a claim in favor of such person against the said City and County, and as such shall be presented, approved and paid as other claims. 
SEC. 114.  CERTIFICATE OF PROPER CONSTRUCTION-ISSUANCE UPON DEMAND.
	Upon the construction, reconstruction or repair of any side sewer or drain as in Sections 105 through 118 of this Article provided for, the Department of Public Works shall issue to the person at whose request and expense the same has been made, a certificate reciting the fact of the proper construction, reconstruction or repair of such side sewer or drain, if the same be demanded. 
SEC. 115.  RESOLUTION OF INTENTION FOR SIDE SEWERS-EXCEPTION.
	It is hereby determined that in the improvement of streets by the construction of sewers therein, that the resolution of intention adopted as a part of the proceedings relating to such improvement shall provide for the construction of side sewers to abutting property, except where the City Engineer reports to the Department of Public Works that construction of certain side sewers is not advisable. 
SEC. 116.  SEWERS CONSTRUCTED FROM PUBLIC FUNDS-PROCEDURE.
	In the case of all sewers constructed by public funds, the specifications and contract shall make like provision for the construction of such side sewers, except where the City Engineer reports to the Department of Public Works that such side sewer construction is inexpedient, and when side sewers are constructed under the provisions of Sections 105 through 118 of this Article, the cost of such side sewers shall be assessed to the abutting property. 
SEC. 116.1.  SEWERS CONSTRUCTED FROM PUBLIC FUNDS-CONNECTION TO.
	Where connection to a sewer constructed with public funds is sought by the owner of a parcel which has not been assessed for or paid for the construction of such sewer, the Director of Public Works is authorized to impose a sewer connection fee which shall be paid to the City at the time such owner requests connection to the sewer. 
	The amount of the fee shall be based on the cost to construct a 12-inch diameter sewer. At locations where a smaller sewer has been constructed, the amount of the fee shall be based on the cost of the sewer so installed. The fee shall be equal to, but not greater than, the assessment that could have been levied for the construction of the sewer facilities at the time they were constructed. The fee shall be collected by the Tax Collector and placed into the account from which funds were taken to construct the sewer in front of said property. 
(Added by Ord. 209-71, App. 8/11/71)
SEC. 117.  MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
	Public sewers and side sewers shall be constructed in accordance with current Standard Specifications and Plans of the Bureau of Engineering, Department of Public Works, and such other regulations of the bureau as may be applicable. 
ARTICLE 4.1:
INDUSTRIAL WASTE
Sec. 118.Purpose.Sec. 119.Definitions.Sec. 120.Authority of the General Manager.Sec. 121.Emergency Actions.Sec. 122.Right to Enter Premises.Sec. 123.Limitations and Prohibitions.Sec. 124.Permit Provisions.Sec. 125.Permit Process.Sec. 126.Registration by Wastewater Producers.Sec. 127.Reporting and Sampling Requirements.Sec. 128.Variances.Sec. 129.General Manager's Hearings.Sec. 130.General Manager's Hearings for Rules and Regulations.Sec. 131.Industrial Waste Review Board.Sec. 132.Enforcement and Cost Reimbursement.Sec. 133.Penalties.Sec. 134.Liens.Sec. 135.Newspaper Notification of Violations.Sec. 136.Disclosure of Information.Sec. 137.Retention of Discharger Information.Sec. 138.Severability.Sec. 139.Citizen Enforcement Actions.Sec. 140.Control of Fats, Oils and Grease.Sec. 140.1.Applicability.Sec. 140.2.Definitions.Sec. 140.3.Prohibitions and Limitations.Sec. 140.4.General Requirements.Sec. 140.5.Grease Capturing Equipment Requirements.Sec. 140.6.New Construction, Changes in Ownership, and Remodeling.Sec. 140.7.Maintenance and Operations.
SEC. 118.  PURPOSE.
	The purpose of this Article and the City's industrial waste pretreatment program is to protect human health and the environment by preventing the discharge of pollutants into the sewerage system that would: (i) obstruct or damage the system; (ii) interfere with, inhibit or disrupt treatment facilities and processes, or the processing, use or disposal of sludge; (iii) pass through the sewerage system and contribute to violations of regulatory requirements imposed on the City; or (iv) otherwise harm, or threaten to harm human health or the environment. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 119.  DEFINITIONS.
	For the purpose of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 
	(a)	Act. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq. 
	(b)	Approved Side Sewer. A sewer constructed and maintained in accordance with applicable City laws and regulations. 
	(c)	Baseline Monitoring Report. A comprehensive report submitted to the General Manager by certain dischargers pursuant to Section 127. This report shall comply with the requirements of federal regulations at 40 CFR 403.12(b)(1990), which is incorporated by reference in this Article. 
	(d)	Bioaccumulative Toxic Substance. A toxic substance that concentrates in living organisms through direct assimilation or accumulation in the food chain, as defined in Title 22, California Code of Regulations and any amendments thereto. 
	(e)	Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) Test. The empirical bioassay-type procedure specified in federal regulations at 40 CFR Part 136 (1990) that measures the dissolved oxygen consumed by microbial life while assimilating and oxidizing the organic matter present. 
	(f)	Categorical Pretreatment Standard or Pretreatment Standard. A regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act. 
	(g)	City. The City and County of San Francisco. 
	(h)	Class I Permit. An order issued by the General Manager that grants a significant industrial user permission to discharge into the City's sewerage system. 
	(i)	Class II Permit. An order issued by the General Manager that grants a minor discharger permission to discharge into the City's sewerage system. 
	(j)	Department. Unless otherwise stated, the Public Utilities Commission of the City and County of San Francisco. 
	(k)	General Manager. The General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission of the City, or a designated representative of the General Manager. 
	(l)	Discharge. The direct or indirect introduction of pollutants or wastewater into the sewerage system. 
	(m)	Discharger. The owner of record, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, or any person, whether located within or outside City boundaries, that (i) discharges or threatens to discharge pollutants into the sewerage system, or (ii) is responsible for the process which directly or indirectly introduces pollutants into the sewerage system. 
	(n)	Flammable or Explosive Substances. Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the sewerage system, including, but not limited to, pollutants with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140Fahrenheit (60Celsius), as determined by a Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester, using the test method specified in ASTM Standard D-93-79 or D-93-80 or a Setaflash Closed Cup Tester, using the test method specified in ASTM Standard D-3828-81. 
	(o)	Grab Sample. An individual sample of wastewater collected over a period of time not exceeding 15 minutes, as defined in federal regulations at 40 CFR 403.7(d)(2)(iv) (1990). 
	(p)	Hydrocarbon Oil and Grease. The empirical test for that fraction of total recoverable oil and grease that is of a petroleum nature as specified in federal regulations at 40 CFR Part 136 (1990). 
	(q)	Industrial User. Used interchangeably with Discharger. 
	(r)	Interference. An inhibition or disruption of the sewerage system, treatment processes or operations, or sludge processes, including the use or disposal of sludge, which causes or threatens to cause a violation of any requirement of the City's permits to operate sewage treatment facilities as defined by State or federal laws and regulations. Violations include, but are not limited to, an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation and the prohibition of City use or disposal of sludge. 
	(s)	Minor Discharger. A discharger other than a significant industrial user. 
	(t)	New Source. Any person who becomes or may become a discharger subject to this Article under the following circumstances: 
		(i)	The person proposes to discharge wastewater into the sewerage system or submits a Class I or Class II permit application for the proposed initial wastewater discharge from any location, or (ii) the person submits a permit application for a proposed discharge of trucked waste under Section 124(d), or (iii) the person is notified that a proposed discharge, or a modification or addition to an existing discharge, will be subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards pursuant to a certification under 40 CFR 403.6 (1990), or any amendment thereto, or (iv) the discharge results from a new source as defined in 40 CFR 403.3(k) (1990), regardless of when a permit application is submitted, or (v) the discharge is determined to be subject to any new source requirements of this Article by the General Manager. 
	(u)	Ninety Day (90-Day) Compliance Report. A compliance report submitted to the General Manager by certain dischargers pursuant to Section 127(d) or a permit, notifying the General Manager whether compliance has been or is being achieved. For Class I permittees, this report shall comply with the requirements of federal regulations at 40 CFR 403.12(d) (1990), which are incorporated by reference in this Article. 
	(v)	NPDES (National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System) Permit. Any permit issued to the City by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or the State of California, applicable to the City's discharges from the sewerage system into the receiving waters pursuant to Section 402 of the Act. 
	(w)	Order. A written determination, revocation, authorization, permission, or document issued by the General Manager pursuant to this Article. 
	(x)	Pass-Through. A discharge that enters receiving waters through the sewerage system in quantities or concentrations which alone, or in combination with a discharge or discharges from other sources, causes or threatens to cause a violation of the City's NPDES permits, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation. 
	(y)	Permit. Authorization issued to a discharger by the General Manager pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 allowing the discharge of wastewater into the City's sewerage system in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. 
	(z)	Person. An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, any group or a combination acting as unit, the United States of America, the State of California and any political subdivision of either thereof, or any public entity organized pursuant to the laws of the United States of America or the State of California. 
	(aa)	Pollutant. The term pollutant means dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, any substances listed in Section 123(a), (b), (c) or (e) of this Article, and industrial, municipal, or agricultural waste, which is or may be introduced into the City's sewerage system. 
	(bb)	Properly Ground Garbage. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food which has been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in the sewerage system. 
	(cc)	Quarterly Reports. Reports submitted by a Class I permit holder to the General Manager as provided in EPA regulations at 40 CFR 403.12(e) (1990), which are incorporated by reference in this Article. 
	(dd)	Receiving Waters. The waters contiguous to the City, including, but not limited to, Central Basin, China Basin, India Basin, Islais Creek Channel, the Pacific Ocean, San Francisco Bay, South Basin, and South Bay. 
	(ee)	Sewerage System. All public facilities for collecting, transporting, treating and disposing of stormwater and pollutants in wastewater. The sewerage system includes facilities owned and operated by public entities other than the City, where such facilities direct wastewater into the sewerage system and are subject to the jurisdiction of the City as defined by law, contract, or interjurisdictional agreement. 
	(ff)	Sewer Service Charge. The charge assessed for collecting, transporting, treating and disposing of wastewater in accordance with this Article, Articles 4.2 and 4.3 of the Public Works Code, as amended from time to time, and annual rate resolutions adopted by the Board of Supervisors. 
	(gg)	Significant Industrial User. A person that is: 
		(1)	Subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards; or
		(2)	Discharges 25,000 gallons per day or more of wastewater, excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater; or 
		(3)	Discharges wastewater that constitutes five percent or more of the average dry-weather hydraulic or organic (BOD, TSS) capacity of the tributary water pollution control plant; or 
		(4)	Discharges a wastestream that, in the opinion of the General Manager, will or may adversely affect the sewerage system by causing interference, pass-through of pollutants, sludge contamination, or endangerment of City workers. 
	(hh)	Significant Noncompliance. For purposes of Section 135 of this Article, a discharger is in significant noncompliance if its violation meets one or more of the following criteria: 
		(1)	Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits; defined here as those in which 66 percent or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the same pollutant parameter; 
		(2)	Technical review criteria (TRC) violations; defined here as those in which 33 percent or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily average maximum limit or the average limit times the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH); 
		(3)	Any other violation of a discharge limitation that the General Manager believes has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through (including endangering the health of Department personnel or the general public); 
		(4)	Any discharge of a pollutant that may cause imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment and has resulted in the General Manager's exercise of his or her emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge; 
		(5)	Violation, by 90 days or more after the schedule date, of a compliance schedule milestone contained in any permit or order issued by the General Manager, for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance; 
		(6)	Failure to provide required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, quarterly monitoring reports, compliance schedule progress reports, and any other reports required by the General Manager within 30 days of the due date; 
		(7)	Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
		(8)	Any other violations or group of violations which the General Manager determines will adversely affect the operation of the sewerage system or implementation of this Article. 
	(ii)	Sludge or Sewage Sludge. A liquid, semisolid or solid residue that contains material removed during the treatment of wastewater discharged from domestic and nondomestic sources. 
	(jj)	Soluble Threshold Limit Concentration (STLC). The concentration of a solubilized and extractable bioaccumulative or persistent toxic substance which, if equaled or exceeded in a waste, renders the waste hazardous as defined in Title 22, California Code of Regulations and its amendments. 
	(kk)	Total Recoverable Oil and Grease. The empirical test for oil and grease, whether petroleum based or otherwise, as defined by EPA analytical methodology provided in federal regulations at 40 CFR Part 136 (1990). 
	(ll)	Total Suspended Solids (TSS) Test. The empirical test for total suspended solids (or nonfilterable residue), specified in federal regulations at 40 CFR Part 136 (1990) that defines those solids that are retained by a glass filter and dried to constant weight at 103-105 degrees Celsius. 
	(mm)	Trucked Waste Discharger. Persons who discharge wastewater into the sewerage system by truck hauling, rail access, a dedicated pipeline, or any means other than an approved side sewer. 
	(nn)	Wastewater. Water containing pollutants, including sanitary waste and stormwater, which is or may be discharged into the sewerage system by any person subject to this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 120.  AUTHORITY OF THE GENERAL MANAGER.
	(a)	The General Manager is authorized to administer and enforce the provisions of this Article; to conduct an industrial waste pretreatment program; to issue permits containing discharge requirements, indemnification and surety provisions and other conditions; to deny or revoke any permits, orders or variances issued pursuant to this Article; to promulgate local limitations imposing specific discharge requirements; to enforce the provisions of this Article by any lawful means available for such purpose; to monitor and inspect any wastewater discharger; to require dischargers to perform and submit for the General Manager's review and approval wastestream and process environmental audits and to require dischargers to implement any objectives, including reclamation and waste minimization objectives, identified by the audits; and to promulgate such orders, rules and regulations necessary to accomplish the purposes of this Article in accordance with the requirements that have been or may be promulgated by federal or state legislatures, the Environmental Protection Agency, the State Water Resources Control Board, the Regional Water Quality Control Board for the San Francisco Bay Region or other authorized agencies. 
	(b)	The General Manager is authorized to require the construction and use of pretreatment systems or devices to treat wastewater prior to discharge to the sewerage system when necessary to restrict or prevent the discharge of wastewater in violation of the Categorical Pretreatment Standards or exceeding the limits established by this Article, or to distribute wastewater discharges over a period of time. The General Manager may require any discharger to develop a compliance schedule containing dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of pretreatment systems or devices necessary for compliance with the provisions of this Article in the shortest time possible. No compliance schedule shall allow more than nine months between any two major event dates. All proposed pretreatment systems or devices shall be subject to the review and comment of the General Manager, but such review shall not relieve a discharger of the responsibility for taking all steps necessary to comply with all applicable wastewater discharge limitations and standards pursuant to this Article and other laws. All required pretreatment systems or devices shall be installed, operated and maintained at the discharger's expense. 
	(c)	The General Manager may, by permit or order, require a discharger to construct, in accordance with current City standards and at the discharger's expense, a monitoring facility in each side sewer in the street or sidewalk area, or in areas further upstream on the discharger's property, for wastewater monitoring purposes. The construction shall be completed within the time set forth in the permit or order. 
	(d)	Any permit may be revoked, modified or suspended by the General Manager, in addition to other remedies provided by law, when such action is necessary to stop a discharge or a threatened discharge that may present a hazard to the public health, safety, welfare, natural environment, or sewerage system, to prevent or stop violations of this Article, or to implement programs or policies required or requested of the City by appropriate state or federal regulatory agencies. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 121.  EMERGENCY ACTIONS.
	The General Manager is authorized to take all necessary actions to immediately and effectively halt or prevent any discharge or threatened discharge of pollutants to the sewerage system that may be an imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or to the environment, or that interferes or threatens to interfere with the operations of the sewerage system. The discharger shall immediately cease undertaking such action or discharge of any wastewater presenting such a hazard upon verbal or written notification by the General Manager. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 122.  RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
	(a)	Upon showing of proper credentials, persons authorized by the General Manager, when necessary for the performance of their duties, shall have the right to enter the discharger's premises. Such authorized personnel may have access to any facilities and records necessary for determining compliance, including, but not limited to, the ability to copy any records, inspect any monitoring equipment, and sample any wastewater subject to regulation under this Article. Notwithstanding any provision of law, persons authorized by the General Manager may enter a discharger's premises at any time if the General Manager determines that an imminent hazard to persons or property exists on or as a result of activities conducted on the discharger's premises. 
	(b)	The General Manager may inspect the process areas of a discharger, inspect chemical and waste storage areas, inspect, sample and monitor wastewater production activities. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 123.  LIMITATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS
	(a)	Any grab sample of the discharger's wastewater shall not at any time exceed any of the following numerical limitations:
Pollutant ParameterLimits(1)pH6.0 min; 9.5 max(2)Dissolved sulfides0.5 mg/l(3)Temperature (except where highertemperatures are required by law)125(52C)(4)Hydrocarbon oil and grease100 mg/l 
	(b)	Any composite sample representative of the total discharge of the wastewater discharge generated over a production week shall not exceed the following numerical limitation: 
Pollutant ParameterLimitTotal recoverable oil and grease300 mg/l 
	Representative composite total recoverable oil and grease samples shall be composited by grab sampling, as required in federal regulations at 40 CFR Part 403 (1990), which are incorporated by reference in this Article. 
	(c)	In addition to the provisions of this Article, all dischargers must comply with all requirements set forth in federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards and other applicable federal regulatory standards, applicable State orders and water quality control regulations, sewage discharge permits and orders issued to the City by federal and State agencies, federal and State pretreatment program approval conditions, local discharge limitations and regulations promulgated by the General Manager and the City, and any other applicable requirement regulating the discharge of wastewater into the sewerage system. The General Manager is authorized to develop and enforce such local limitations as he or she deems necessary for the City's compliance with State and federal laws and requirements and the enforcement of this Article. 
	(d)	Discharge of wastewater containing radioactive materials is permitted only if the following conditions are satisfied:
		(1)	The discharger obtains a permit from the General Manager for the discharge of radioactive materials;
		(2)	The discharger is authorized to use radioactive materials by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or other governmental agency empowered to regulate the use of radioactive materials; and 
		(3)	The radioactive material is discharged in strict conformity with all Nuclear Regulatory Commission or other governmental agency requirements. 
	(e)	No person shall discharge, deposit, throw, cause, allow or permit to be discharged, deposited or thrown into the City's sewerage system any substance of any kind whatever, including oxygen-demanding pollutants, that may or will in any manner cause interference or pass-through, obstruct or damage the sewerage system, cause a nuisance, interfere with the proper operation, repair or maintenance of the sewerage system, interfere with the proper operation, repair or maintenance of a reclaimed water production or distribution facility, create difficulty for any workers to repair or maintain any part of the sewerage system, or directly or indirectly cause a violation of the City's federal or State sewage discharge permits or any other requirement applicable to the City. Such substances include, but are not limited to the following: 
		(1)	Ashes, cinders, sand, gravel, dirt, bark, leaves, grass cuttings and straw, metals, glass, ceramics and plastics, or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or that will not be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in the City's sewerage system; 
		(2)	Any flammable or explosive substances;
		(3)	Garbage, excepting properly ground garbage discharged in accordance with this Article, from dwellings and restaurants or other establishments engaged in the preparation of foods and beverages; 
		(4)	Any toxic, hazardous, noxious or malodorous substance that either singly or by interaction with other wastes may or will prevent maintenance of the sewerage system or create a nuisance or hazard to the safety of the public or City employees; 
		(5)	Any bioaccumulative toxic substance that exceeds the soluble threshold limit concentration (STLC);
		(6)	Any wastewater, in temperature or quantity, which will cause the temperature of influent to exceed 104 Fahrenheit (40 Celsius) at the point of introduction to any City wastewater treatment plant; 
		(7)	Any liquids, solids or gases or any discharge that may cause damage or harm to any reclaimed water facility, or that may limit or prevent any use of reclaimed water authorized by Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations. 
	(f)	No person shall discharge without a permit any pollutants, except stormwater, directly or indirectly into a manhole, catchbasin, or other opening in the sewerage system other than an approved side sewer. 
	(g)	No discharger shall increase the use of process water or, in any other way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the requirements of this Article. 
	(h)	No person shall discharge groundwater or water from sumps or dewatering facilities into the sewerage system without a permit. An application for a permit pursuant to this subsection shall be submitted to the General Manager no later than 45 days prior to the proposed commencement of the discharge. Each permit for groundwater discharge shall contain appropriate discharge standards and any other appropriate requirements that must be achieved before discharge into the sewerage system may commence. Such discharges shall be subject to payment of sewer service charges in accordance with the provisions of applicable City laws. The General Manager may require the discharger to install and maintain meters at the discharger's expense to measure the volume of the discharge. 
	(i)	No person shall discharge wastewater associated with groundwater cleanup or remediation plans without first obtaining a permit. An application for a permit pursuant to this subsection shall be submitted to the General Manager no later than 45 days prior to the proposed commencement of the discharge. A permit may be issued only if an effective pretreatment system on the process stream is maintained and operated. Each permit for such discharge shall contain appropriate discharge standards based on this Article and reports or data provided by the discharger, as well as any other appropriate requirements that must be achieved at the time the discharge commences. Such discharges shall be subject to payment of sewer service charges in accordance with the provisions of applicable City laws. The General Manager may require the discharger to install and maintain meters at the discharger's expense to measure the volume of the discharge. The General Manager may require that such dischargers shall indemnify and hold harmless the City from any and all costs, claims, damages, fines, remediation costs, losses and other expenses arising from the discharge into the sewerage system. 
	(j)	The discharge of wastewater associated with asbestos abatement operations is authorized without a permit, provided that the wastewater has been pretreated through a system that provides for removal of waterborne asbestos. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 124.  PERMIT PROVISIONS.
	(a)	It shall be unlawful for any significant industrial user to discharge or cause to be discharged any wastewater whatsoever, directly or indirectly, into the sewerage system without first obtaining a Class I permit authorizing the discharge. The General Manager may require minor dischargers to obtain Class II permits containing specified requirements whenever necessary to further the objectives of this Article. It shall be unlawful for any discharger to discharge any wastewater in excess of permit requirements or to violate any other requirement of this Article. 
	(b)	Permits for wastewater discharges may include, but are not limited to, conditions and terms requiring pretreatment of wastewater before discharge; limiting discharge of certain wastewater parameters; restricting peak flow discharges; requiring standards of performance on the wastewater quality; restricting discharge to certain hours of the day; requiring payment of additional charges to defray increased costs to the City created by the wastewater discharge; requiring sampling and monitoring before and during discharge; requiring specific investigations or studies to determine methods of reducing toxic constituents in discharges; and other conditions and terms necessary to achieve the objectives of this Article. Permits shall be issued for a fixed time period not to exceed five years. 
	(c)	Each permit shall include requirements that the discharger shall reimburse the City for extraordinary costs, in addition to the applicable sewer service charge, for treatment, pumping, maintenance of the sewerage system, administration, incidental expenses, inspection and monitoring, and payment of penalties imposed on the City by enforcement agencies caused by the specific characteristics of the discharge into the sewerage system. When the discharge of wastewater or any pollutant causes an obstruction, damage or other impairment to the sewerage system, the discharger shall pay to the City an amount equal to the costs of cleaning and repairing the sewerage system, plus all related administrative costs, penalties and other incidental fees and expenses. Permits for discharges shall not be renewed unless all such costs have been paid to the City. 
	(d)	The discharge of wastewater into the sewerage system through means other than an approved side sewer is prohibited, unless authorized by a permit. This subsection does not apply to groundwater discharges authorized in accordance with Section 123(h) of this Article. Trucked waste dischargers shall obtain a permit from the General Manager prior to commencing any discharge. The General Manager shall prescribe requirements consistent with this Article and any other applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to requirements to pay appropriate permit fees and charges. Permits shall not be granted to trucked waste dischargers that do not have San Francisco business licenses or are discharging wastewater produced, treated, or stored in facilities not located within the General Manager's jurisdiction unless the trucked waste discharger enters into a binding contractual commitment to be subject to and comply with the requirements of this Article and the exercise of the General Manager's authority granted by this Article. The General Manager may require any person subject to this subsection: 
		(1)	To treat wastewater on its own site prior to discharge into the sewerage system, whether the discharge is through an approved side sewer or by any other means approved by the General Manager; 
		(2)	To construct a side sewer in accordance with Department specifications and cease the discharge of wastewater in any manner other than through the approved side sewer; 
		(3)	To provide the General Manager with a compliance schedule, as specified in Section 120(b), for meeting the provisions of this Article; 
		(4)	To perform and submit for the General Manager's review and approval wastestream and process environmental audits and to implement any objectives, including reclamation and waste minimization objectives, identified by the audits. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 125.  PERMIT PROCESS.
	(a)	Persons discharging wastewater into the sewerage system prior to the effective date of this amendment to this Article shall submit an application for a permit when notified by the General Manager. Except as provided in Section 123(h), (i) and (j), a new source must submit an application at least 90 days prior to commencement of the discharge. 
	(b)	Applicants for either a permit, a permit modification, or a permit renewal shall complete and submit an application for each point of discharge. The General Manager, at his or her discretion, may require submission of information on the characteristics of the discharge in addition to information provided in the application. The completed application shall be submitted by the discharger not less than 90 days prior to the commencement of the discharge or the modified discharge, or in the case of a permit renewal, 90 days prior to the expiration date of an existing permit. The application shall contain the certification required by Section 127(f) of this Article and shall be signed by an authorized representative of the discharger in accordance with Section 127(g) of this Article. No person shall commence discharge prior to issuance of the permit. 
	(c)	No permit may be issued unless the applicant has complied with all requirements of this Article and all applicable City, State and federal laws; the applicant has furnished all requested information; the General Manager determines that there are adequate devices, equipment, chemicals, and other facilities to sample, meter, convey, treat, and dispose of wastewater; and the persons responsible for treatment and control are adequately trained and capable of consistently meeting permit requirements. The General Manager shall take final action on permit denial, issuance, modification, or renewal by sending a copy of the permit to the applicant by certified mail. 
	(d)	The General Manager shall post a notice of permit issuance, denial, renewal or modification at City Hall, or by publication in a newspaper of general circulation. The notice shall include a summary of the General Manager's action on the permit, and instructions for filing a public hearing request. The General Manager's action shall be final 15 days after the General Manager's posting or publication of the notice of permit action, or within the time specified in the notice, unless a public hearing request has been filed in accordance with Section 125(e). 
	(e)	Any person who deems that his or her interests or property or that the general public interest will be adversely affected by the General Manager's denial, issuance, modification, or renewal of a permit may request a public hearing within 15 days of the General Manager's posting or publication of a notice of permit action, or within the time specified in the notice. Upon receipt of a timely request for a public hearing, the General Manager shall hold a public hearing after giving the notice provided in Section 129(b). 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 126.  REGISTRATION BY WASTEWATER PRODUCERS.
	(a)	Every person within the General Manager's jurisdiction who engages in any activity or process that collects or produces wastewater and does not discharge such wastewater into the sewerage system through an approved side sewer shall register its activities with the General Manager. The General Manager shall require each registrant to provide information describing the wastewater-producing activity, the nature and characteristics of the wastewater, and the ultimate use or methods of disposal of the wastewater. Registration must be renewed annually. 
	(b)	The General Manager may take samples, inspect and monitor any activity or process subject to this Section, and may require that the collector or producer of wastewater provide monitoring and sampling information. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 127.  REPORTING AND SAMPLING REQUIREMENTS.
	(a)	All dischargers shall submit periodic reports to the General Manager, and the General Manager may require any reports or information appropriate for the nature of any discharge, on a case-by-case basis. Specific reporting requirements shall be specified in the permit, or in compliance directives and orders. Failure to submit complete and accurate reports by the date specified in an order or permit is a violation of this Article. 
	(b)	Dischargers holding Class I permits shall submit periodic reports of compliance on a quarterly basis ("Quarterly Reports"), as specified in the permit. These reports shall include a description of any violations of this Article, remedial measures undertaken by the discharger, process changes, treatment system alterations, and any other information required by the permit. Class I permittees subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall include the information required by 40 CFR 403.12(e) (1990) in each Quarterly Report. 
	(c)	Any new source discharger that must comply with Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall submit a Baseline Monitoring Report at least 90 days prior to commencement of any discharge. Any discharger that becomes subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards due to promulgation of a new Standard, or pursuant to a certification under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4) (1990), shall submit a Baseline Monitoring Report within 180 days of the effective compliance date. Every discharger subject to a Class I permit shall submit an amended Baseline Monitoring Report whenever the volume or characteristics of its discharge significantly changes, or when required by the General Manager. 
	(d)	Dischargers subject to Class I permits shall submit a 90-day compliance report within 90 days of the compliance date of an applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard, or, for new sources, within 90 days following commencement of the discharge. 
	(e)	Dischargers subject to a compliance schedule for the construction or operation of pretreatment systems or devices required to meet Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall submit compliance schedule progress reports not later than 14 days after each major event date and the final compliance date. All other dischargers subject to compliance schedules shall submit compliance schedule reports as ordered by the General Manager. Each progress report shall state whether or not the discharger has complied with the increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and any steps being taken to return to the established compliance schedule. The General Manager may require such additional information as necessary in any compliance schedule progress report, and may extend the date for submittal, provided that no more than nine months may elapse between any two progress reports. 
	(f)	Every person signing any report required by Paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), or (i) of this Section shall make the following certification: 
	I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations. 
	(g)	All reports must be signed by an authorized representative of the discharger. An authorized representative may be:
		(1)	A principal executive officer or official, if the discharger submitting the reports required by this Section is a corporation or public agency; 
		(2)	A general partner or proprietor if the discharger submitting the report required by this Section is a partnership or sole proprietorship respectively; 
		(3)	A duly authorized representative of the individual designated in Subparagraph (1) and (2) of this paragraph if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates. 
	(h)	Dischargers shall notify the General Manager prior to any substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in any wastewater discharge and shall apply for and obtain an amended permit prior to commencement of such altered discharge. 
	(i)	Dischargers shall immediately notify the General Manager of any discharge or threatened discharge of pollutants, including but not limited to oxygen-demanding pollutants, wastes or hazardous wastes as defined in Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations, or any other substances on the discharger's premises that: (i) could cause danger to the public; (ii) may cause interference in the sewerage system; or (iii) constitutes a violation of the requirements of this Article or a permit or order issued by the General Manager. A written report to the General Manager shall be submitted within five working days after the discharge commenced explaining the nature, volume and duration of the noncompliance or release and all remedial and preventive measures taken by the discharger. Such notification and report shall not relieve any discharger of liability for any expenses, including but not limited to, costs for countermeasures, loss or damage to the sewerage system, liability for fines imposed upon the City because of such occurrences, liability for any fines or damages because of such occurrences, or for any damages incurred by a third party. 
	(j)	All dischargers that are required to monitor their discharges shall sample in accordance with the sampling planning, methodology and equipment, and the sample processing, documentation and custody procedures specified in Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods, SW-846, 3rd edition, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, November, 1986, and any amendments thereto. The analysis of samples shall be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in federal regulations at 40 CFR Part 136 (1990), and amendments thereto, which are incorporated by reference in this Article. 
	(k)	Each municipality, sanitation district or local governmental entity located outside the boundaries of the City and County of San Francisco that, pursuant to contract or law, delivers wastewater to the City's sewerage system for treatment and disposal shall immediately notify the General Manager of its approval or the creation of a new source located within its jurisdiction. Each such governmental entity also shall notify each new source that its proposed discharge must comply with the provisions of this Article and other applicable laws. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 128.  VARIANCES.
	The General Manager shall hear and make determinations regarding applications submitted by dischargers for variances from the strict application of the requirements of this Article. Variance determinations shall be issued as specified in Section 129. The General Manager may grant variances only when such action is consistent with this Article's general purpose and intent and the general and specific rules contained in this Article. A variance shall not be granted unless the General Manager finds that the applicant is or will be in violation of this Article, and that due to circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the applicant, requiring compliance would result in unavoidable and excessive hardship. Practical difficulties associated with treatment systems or the expense of appropriate treatment shall not, standing alone, constitute circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the applicant. The General Manager shall not grant variances from applicable federal or State discharge standards. This subsection shall in no way limit the powers and authority of the General Manager pursuant to this Article. A pending variance application shall not be a defense to any enforcement action of the General Manager, or to any civil or criminal action under this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 129.  GENERAL MANAGER'S HEARINGS.
	(a)	The General Manager shall hold a public hearing for the following purposes:
		(1)	To grant or deny a variance application submitted pursuant to Section 128;
		(2)	To issue an order that imposes an administrative civil penalty pursuant to Sections 132(c) and 133(c) of this Article;
		(3)	To issue and order pursuant to Section 132 of this Article that revokes or suspends a permit;
		(4)	To take public comment on a permit application under Section 125, upon timely and proper request by a person authorized pursuant to Section 125(e). 
	(b)	Notices of public hearings pursuant to this Section shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City for at least two days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of such hearing. Written notice setting forth the date of a public hearing shall be sent to interested persons by certified mail at least 10 days in advance of such hearing. The notice shall state the nature and purpose of the public hearing. 
	(c)	At the conclusion of a public hearing, the General Manager may take any action consistent with this Article and other applicable law. The General Manager's decision shall be in writing, and shall contain a statement of reasons in support of the decision. Following a public hearing, the decision of the General Manager shall be sent by certified mail to the discharger and any other interested person. The General Manager's action shall be final unless an appeal, if provided by this Article, is filed in accordance with Section 131. 
	(d)	Within 30 days after service of a copy of a final order issued after a public hearing required by Subsection (a) of this Section, any person so served may file with the Superior Court a petition for writ of mandate for review of the order. Any person who fails to file the petition within this 30-day period may not challenge the reasonableness or validity of an order of the General Manager in any judicial proceedings brought to enforce the order or for other remedies. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, Section 1094.5 of the California Code of Civil Procedure shall govern any proceedings conducted pursuant to this subsection. In all proceedings pursuant to this Section, the court shall uphold the order of the General Manager if the order is based upon substantial evidence in the whole record. The filing of a petition for writ of mandate shall not stay any accrual of any penalties assessed pursuant to this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 130.  GENERAL MANAGER'S HEARINGS FOR RULES AND REGULATIONS.
	(a)	Before the General Manager approves the issuance or amendment of any rule or regulation, the General Manager shall provide a 30-day public comment period by providing published notice in an official newspaper of general circulation in the City and County of San Francisco of the intent to issue or amend the rule or regulation. The notice shall state the date, time and place of a public hearing at which the General Manager will take public comment on the proposed rule or regulation. 
	(b)	At the conclusion of the public hearing, the General Manager may take any action consistent with this Article and other applicable law. 
	(c)	Subject to the requirements of this Section, the General Manager is authorized to:
		(1)	Adopt or amend concentrations of wastewater constituents for the purpose of assessing sewer service charges for any discharger not required to sample and analyze its wastewater. 
		(2)	Adopt or amend any local discharge limitations, rules or regulations required by law or deemed necessary by the General Manager to achieve the purposes of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 131.  INDUSTRIAL WASTE REVIEW BOARD.
	(a)	Membership. There is hereby continued an Industrial Waste Review Board which shall consist of five members who have had not less than five years of professional experience related to water pollution abatement. Members of the Board will serve on call on a per diem basis. The General Manager shall make succeeding four-year appointments at the expiration of the existing appointments. The members so chosen will be the voting members of the Board. The Manager of the Bureau of Water Pollution Control, or a designated representative, shall be an ex officio member of the Board, participating in the deliberations of the Board without vote or compensation. The General Manager shall appoint a member of his or her staff to act as Secretary of the Board. 
	(b)	Compensation. The voting members of the Board shall receive compensation of $30 per hour during the time that the Board is convened. 
	(c)	Quorum. Three voting members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. Any decision of the Board shall require three concurring votes. 
	(d)	Powers of the Board. The Board shall hear and decide appeals from the General Manager's denial, issuance, renewal or modification of a permit pursuant to Section 125, and from the General Manager's decision on a variance pursuant to Section 128. The Board shall not have jurisdiction to hear appeals of orders issued pursuant to Sections 121 or 132. Upon hearing an appeal taken pursuant to this Section, the Board may, subject to the same limitations that are placed upon the General Manager by this Article, approve, disapprove or modify the decision appealed from, in conformity with the following requirements: 
		(1)	In the case of a variance application, the Board shall specify in its findings, as part of a written decision, facts sufficient to establish why the application meets or does not meet, as the case may be, the requirements set forth in Section 128, and if the requirements are deemed to be met, the Board shall prescribe the details and conditions of the variance. 
		(2)	In the case of any permit denial, issuance, modification or renewal, if the determination of the Board differs from that of the General Manager, it shall state in writing any specific error or errors in interpretation of the provisions of this Article, abuse of discretion on the part of the General Manager, or any other basis for revision. The Board shall specify in its written findings the facts relied upon in arriving at its determination. 
	(e)	Appeal.
		(1)	Filing an Appeal. Appeals shall be filed with the Secretary of the Board within 15 days after receipt of the decision of the General Manager under Section 129. The Board shall not have jurisdiction to hear an appeal filed after the 15-day period has passed. The Board shall not have jurisdiction to hear an appeal of the denial, issuance, renewal, or modification of the permit if a General Manager's hearing was not requested in accordance with Section 125. A filing fee of $350 made payable to the General Manager shall accompany the filing of an appeal. 
		(2)	Standing. Any person that presented evidence or testimony at a General Manager's hearing on a variance may appeal the General Manager's variance decision to the Board. Appeals of the General Manager's decision on a permit may only be filed by persons authorized pursuant to Section 125(e). 
		(3)	Contents of Appeal. The appeal must specifically set forth the alleged error, abuse of discretion or any other basis for the appeal and contain relevant arguments and documentation in support of the appellant's claim. 
		(4)	Hearing. The procedure and requirements for the transmittal of the record, notice of hearing, and the record in connection with any appeal under this Section shall be prescribed by the Board. 
	(f)	Hearing Procedure. Hearings by the Board shall be held at the call of the Secretary of the Board and at such times as the Board may determine. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the following procedure: 
		(1)	The date of the hearing shall not be less than one week nor more than four weeks after receipt of filing the appeal by the Secretary of the Board. 
		(2)	The General Manager will present evidence and a recommendation for resolution. The Board shall hear evidence from the appellant, but appellant may present relevant information not previously submitted to the General Manager only if its failure to present such information to the General Manager was caused by events beyond its control or the Board determines that introduction of such information is essential to the fair resolution of the controversy. 
		(3)	The Board shall make a final decision within 90 days from the date of filing the appeal, and shall communicate its decision to the General Manager, all appellants, and the discharger. No response from the Board within 90 days will constitute approval of the General Manager's final decision. 
		(4)	The General Manager shall designate a certified court reporter as official reporter of the Board. The reporter shall attend all hearings of the Board and report all testimony, the objections made, and the ruling of the Board. The fees for the reporter for reporting all of the proceedings and testimony as outlined above shall be a legal charge against the City. The fees for transcripts of the proceedings shall be at the expense of the party requesting the transcript as prescribed by Government Code Section 69950, and the original transcript shall be filed with the Secretary at the expense of the party ordering the transcript. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 132.  ENFORCEMENT AND COST REIMBURSEMENT.
	(a)	Cease and Desist Orders. Whenever the General Manager finds that a discharge of wastewater is taking place or threatening to take place in violation of any requirement imposed pursuant to this Article, or pursuant to any order, regulation, or permit issued by the General Manager, the General Manager may issue an order directing the discharger to cease and desist such discharges and directing the discharger to achieve compliance in accordance with a detailed schedule of specific actions the discharger must take in order to correct or prevent violations of this Article. The General Manager may order the revocation or suspension of any permit or variance. Any order issued by the General Manager under this Section may require the discharger to provide such information as the General Manager deems necessary to explain the nature of the discharge. The General Manager may require in any cease and desist order that the discharger pay to the City the costs of any extraordinary inspection or monitoring deemed necessary by the General Manager because of the violation. 
	(b)	Cleanup and Abatement Orders.
		(1)	Any person who has discharged or discharges pollutants or wastewater in violation of this Article or any order, regulation, or prohibition issued by the General Manager, shall upon order of the General Manager and at the discharger's expense clean up such wastewater and abate the effects of the unlawful discharge. 
		(2)	The General Manager may perform any cleanup, abatement or remedial work required under Subdivision (1) when required by the magnitude of the violation or when necessary to prevent pollution, nuisance or injury to the environment. Such action may be taken in default of, or in addition to, remedial work by the discharger or other persons, regardless of whether injunctive relief is being sought. 
		(3)	Any discharger who has violated or is in violation of the requirements of this Article shall be liable to the City for costs incurred in abating the effects thereof, or taking other remedial action, including but not limited to administrative costs, inspection costs, attorneys fees, and penalties or other liability imposed upon the City by other agencies. 
	(c)	Administrative Civil Penalty Orders.
		(1)	The General Manager may issue a complaint to any discharger on whom an administrative civil penalty may be imposed pursuant to Section 133(c). The complaint shall allege the acts or failure to act that constitute a basis for liability and the amount of the proposed administrative civil penalty. The General Manager shall serve the complaint by personal service or certified mail and shall inform the discharger so served that a hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Section 129 of this Article, unless the discharger waives the right to a hearing. If the discharger waives the right to a hearing, the General Manager shall issue an order setting liability in the amount proposed in the complaint unless the General Manager and the discharger have entered into a settlement agreement, in which case the General Manager shall issue an order setting liability on the amount specified in the settlement agreement. The settlement agreement shall be approved by the City Attorney as to form. Where the discharger has waived the right to a hearing or where the General Manager and the discharger have entered into a settlement agreement, the order shall not be subject to review by any court or governmental agency. 
		(2)	Any hearing required by Subsection (1) shall be conducted in accordance with Section 129.
		(3)	Orders imposing civil liability issued under this Section shall become effective and final upon issuance. Payment of civil penalties to the General Manager shall be made within 30 days of issuance of the order. Copies of such orders shall be served by personal service or by certified mail upon the discharger served with the complaint and upon other persons who appeared and participated at the hearing and requested a copy. 
	(d)	Injunctive Relief.
		(1)	Upon the failure of any discharger or dischargers to comply with any requirement of this Article, a permit, or any regulation, prohibition, cease and desist order, cleanup and abatement order, or any other order issued by the General Manager, the City Attorney, upon request of the General Manager, may petition the proper court for injunctive relief, payment of civil penalties, and any other appropriate remedy, including restraining such discharger or dischargers from continuing any prohibited activity and compelling compliance with lawful requirements. 
		(2)	In any civil action brought pursuant to this Article in which a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, or permanent injunction is sought, it is not necessary to allege or prove at any stage of the proceeding that irreparable damage will occur should the temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, or permanent injunction not be issued, or that the remedy at law is inadequate. The court shall issue a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, or permanent injunction in a civil action brought pursuant to this Article without the allegations and without the proof specified above. 
	(e)	Termination of Discharge. In addition to other remedies, when in the judgment of the General Manager the discharger has not or cannot demonstrate satisfactory progress toward compliance with the requirements of this Article, the General Manager, after providing written notice to the discharger by certified mail 30 days in advance of such action, may sever or plug the connection from the discharger's side sewer to the sewerage system or otherwise prevent the discharge of wastewater from the discharger's facilities to the sewerage system. 
	(f)	Orders issued under this Section shall become final upon receipt by the discharger or as specified by the General Manager. Orders may be issued by certified mail, or, except for orders under Paragraph (e), by personal service. 
	(g)	The discharger may request a public hearing within 15 days of the final date of an order issued under Subsections (a), (b) or (e) of this Section. The effective date of such an order shall not be postponed solely because of the filing of a request for a hearing. Notice of a public hearing and of the final decision of the General Manager shall be given as provided in Section 129. 
	(h)	Cost Reimbursement by Citizens.
		(1)	In any instance where the General Manager issues an order to a discharger under this Section for a violation of this Article, and the General Manager determines that information provided by a citizen contributed to the identification of the violation and issuance of the order, the discharger shall, in addition to any other fees or costs authorized under this Section, pay the reasonable costs directly incurred by the citizen in obtaining the information in accordance with the requirements set forth in this subsection. For purposes of this subsection, "citizen" shall have the meaning defined in Section 139(a) of this Article. 
		(2)	Any citizen seeking the recovery of costs pursuant to this subsection shall have the burden of documenting the costs and proving that the costs sought to be recovered are reasonable and accurate. Except as set forth in subparagraph (3), reimbursable costs shall be limited to documented costs directly incurred by the citizen plus an additional five percent of the total amount authorized for recovery of overhead expenses. 
		(3)	In the alternative, where a citizen is either unable, or chooses not to document reimbursable costs otherwise recoverable under this subsection, the discharger shall, in addition to any other fees or costs authorized under this Section, pay $50 to the citizen for cost reimbursement. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 114-97, App. 3/28/97; Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 133.  PENALTIES.
	(a)	Criminal Penalties.
		(1)	Except as provided in Subsection (a)(2) of this Section, any person who violates any provision of this Article is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $1,000 or be imprisoned in County Jail for not more than six months, or both. Each day each violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense. 
		(2)	Any person who violates Section 123(e), Section 123(f), or Section 123(h) of this Article shall be guilty of:
			(A)	A misdemeanor in accordance with Subsection (a)(1) of this Section; or
			(B)	An infraction punishable by a fine in an amount not in excess of $500. Each day each violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense. 
		(3)	Falsifying of Information. Any person who knowingly makes any false statement or misrepresentation in any record, report plan, or other document filed with the General Manager, or tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or sampling and analysis method required under this Article, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $25,000 or by imprisonment in County Jail for not more than six months, or both. 
	(b)	Civil Penalties.
		(1)	Any person who, without regard to intent or negligence, causes or permits any discharge of wastewater or hazardous waste, as defined in Title 22, California Code of Regulations and its amendments, into the City's sewerage system, except in accordance with all permit requirements and other provisions of this Article; violates any provision of a cease and desist order or cleanup and abatement order issued by the General Manager; or violates any requirement or prohibition of this Article, shall be liable civilly to the City in an amount not to exceed $10,000 per day for each violation that occurs. 
		(2)	Any person who intentionally or negligently causes or permits any discharge of wastewater or hazardous waste, as defined in Title 22, California Code of Regulations, into the City's sewerage system, except in accordance with all permit requirements and other provisions of this Article; violates any provision of a cease and desist order or cleanup and abatement order issued by the General Manager; or violates any requirement or prohibition of this Article, shall be liable civilly to the City in an amount not to exceed $25,000 per day for each violation that occurs. 
	(c)	Administrative Civil Penalties.
		(1)	Notwithstanding Subsection (b), any person who, without regard to intent or negligence, causes or permits any discharge of wastewater or hazardous waste, as defined in Title 22, California Code of Regulations and its amendments, into the City's sewerage system, except in accordance with all permit requirements and other provisions of this Article; violates any provision of a cease and desist order or cleanup and abatement order issued by the General Manager; or violates any requirement or prohibition of this Article, shall be liable civilly to the City in an amount not to exceed $1,000 per day for each violation that occurs. 
		(2)	Notwithstanding Subsection (b), any person who intentionally or negligently causes or permits any discharge of wastewater or hazardous waste, as defined in Title 22, California Code of Regulations, into the City's sewerage system, except in accordance with all permit requirements and other provisions of this Article; violates any provision of a cease and desist order or cleanup and abatement order issued by the General Manager; or violates any requirement or prohibition of this Article, shall be liable civilly to the City in an amount not to exceed $2,000 per day for each violation that occurs. 
		(3)	A civil penalty may not be imposed pursuant to this subsection and Subsection (b) for the same violation.
	(d)	Remedies under this Section are in addition to, and do not supersede or limit, any and all other civil or criminal remedies available to the City under local, State and federal law. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 134.  LIENS.
	(a)	Costs and charges incurred by the City by reason of the abatement of any violation of this Article, including but not limited to monitoring and inspection costs; a delinquency in the payment of a bill for any industrial waste charge in excess of 30 days; and any civil penalties assessed against a discharger for violations of this Article or against the City for violations caused by a discharger shall be an obligation owed by the owner of the property where the discharge originated in the City. The City shall mail to the owner of the property where the discharge occurred a notice of the amounts due and a warning that lien proceedings will be initiated against the property if the amounts due are not paid within 30 days after mailing of the notice. 
	(b)	Liens shall be created and assessed in accordance with the requirements of Article XX of Chapter 10 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, commencing with Section 10.230. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97; Ord. 322-00, File No. 001917, App. 12/28/2000)
SEC. 135.  NEWSPAPER NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATIONS.
	The General Manager shall provide for annual notice in the City's largest circulated newspaper of dischargers that were in significant noncompliance during the preceding 12 months. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 136.  DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.
	(a)	Any records, reports, or information submitted by a discharger to the General Manager, whether made in writing or by communication incorporated in Department reports, shall be available to the public, except upon a showing made by a discharger satisfactory to the General Manager that public disclosure of records, reports, or information which the General Manager or other authorized personnel has received would divulge methods or processes entitled to protection as confidential trade secrets. All such records, reports, or information at any time may be disclosed to other authorized City personnel or any local, State or federal agency. 
	(b)	Whenever the General Manager makes a written request or orders that a discharger furnish information, the request or order shall include a notice that: 
		(1)	States that the discharger may assert a business confidentiality claim covering specified information; and
		(2)	States that if no such claim accompanies the information when it is received by the General Manager, it may be made available to the public without further notice to the discharger. 
	(c)	In assessing the validity of a business confidentiality claim, the General Manager shall determine whether the information is entitled by statute or judicial order to confidential treatment. In the absence of such a finding, the General Manager shall make the information available for public disclosure. 
	(d)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, discharger wastewater data is not confidential and shall be made available to the public without restriction. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 137.  RETENTION OF DISCHARGER INFORMATION.
	Any reports that must be submitted pursuant to Section 127 to the General Manager by a discharger shall be retained for a minimum of five years and shall be made available for inspection and copying by the General Manager or any State or federal agency. This period of retention shall be extended during the course of any unresolved litigation regarding the discharge of pollutants by the discharger or the operation of the City's pretreatment program or when requested by any State or federal agency. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 138.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Article, is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Article. The Board of Supervisors declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Article irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases could be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. 
(Added by Ord. 19-92, App. 1/23/92; amended by Ord. 116-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 139.  CITIZEN ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
	(a)	Authorization. Any citizen may commence a civil action on his or her own behalf against any person who is alleged to have violated, or to be in violation of: (i) any requirement imposed pursuant to this Article; or (ii) any order, regulation, variance or permit issued by the General Manager pursuant to this Article. For purposes of this Section and Subsection (h) of Section 132, "citizen" shall mean either of the following: 
		(1)	An individual who resides in the City; or
		(2)	A corporation, partnership or association that maintains its principal office in the City, and which has an interest which is, or may be, adversely affected. 
	(b)	Notice. No action may be commenced under Subsection (a) of this Section: 
		(1)	Prior to 60 days after the citizen has given notice of the alleged violation to (A) the General Manager, (B) the City Attorney, (C) the District Attorney, and (D) the alleged violator or violators of the requirement, order, regulation, variance or permit; or 
		(2)	If the City has commenced and is diligently prosecuting a civil, criminal, or administrative penalty action pursuant to this Article and the City's enforcement response plan to require compliance with the requirement, order, regulation, variance or permit, provided that in any such action brought in State court, any citizen may intervene as a matter of right. 
	(c)	Intervention: Protection of City Interests.
		(1)	In any action brought under this Section where the City is not a party, the City may intervene as a matter of right.
		(2)	Whenever an action is brought under this Section, the plaintiff shall serve a copy of the complaint on the City Attorney and General Manager. No consent judgment or settlement shall be entered in an action in which the City is not a party prior to 30 days following receipt of the proposed consent judgment or settlement by the City Attorney and General Manager. 
	(d)	Litigation Costs. The court in issuing any final order brought pursuant to this Section shall award costs of litigation (including reasonable attorney and expert witness fees) to any prevailing or substantially prevailing party who brought the underlying action, when the court determines such an award is appropriate. The court may, if a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction is sought by the citizen, require a filing of a bond or undertaking in accordance with State law and local court rules. 
	(e)	Other relief not restricted.
		(1)	Nothing in this Section shall restrict any right which any person may have under any statute, ordinance, or common law to seek enforcement of any requirement prescribed by or under this Article, or to seek any other relief. 
		(2)	Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prohibit or restrict the City from bringing any administrative, civil or criminal action or obtaining any remedy or sanction against any person to enforce any requirement set forth in this Article. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to authorize judicial review by a citizen of any permit, role, variance or regulation issued pursuant to this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 115-97, App. 3/28/97)
SEC. 140.  CONTROL OF FATS, OILS AND GREASE.
	a.	Sections 140--140.7 of this Article provide requirements for the control of the discharge of fats, oils and grease to the City's sewerage system. Large quantities of fats, oil and grease that are discharged from commercial and residential kitchens contribute to blockages in the City's sewerage system. The resulting clogs in sewer pipes cost the City millions of dollars each year in grease removal and sewer repair costs, and result in the overall degradation of the City's sewer infrastructure. 
	b.	This Article facilitates implementation of a comprehensive pollution prevention program to keep fats, oils and grease out of the City's sewer system, and compliance with the City's current Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits and the Sanitary Sewer Overflow Waste Discharge Requirements (WDRs) permit, which are issued by the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA). 
	c.	The US EPA promotes the development of fats, oils and grease control programs throughout the country because approximately 40,000 fats, oils and grease-related sanitary sewer overflows that have the potential to contaminate the nation's water bodies occur each year. Nationwide, wastewater utilities have been sued for violations of the Clean Water Act caused by sanitary sewer overflows. 
	d.	The City's aggressive efforts to control fats, oils and grease will enhance its compliance with the Clean Water Act, and also reduce the potential for system back-ups from the combined sewer system. 
	e.	The primary objective of sections 140-140.7 of this Article is to reduce fats, oils and grease discharges from local food service establishments into the City's sewerage system. Food service establishments are required by current regulations to comply with a limit on the amount of total oil and grease they can discharge into City sewers. This discharge limit has not been completely effective in keeping fats, oils and grease out of the sewers. Many food service establishments have grease capturing equipment that is not well maintained or serviced and does little to remove grease from wastewater discharges. Other food service establishments have no grease capturing equipment at all. 
	f.	Sections 140-140.7 of this Article will:
		1.	Provide standards for the types of grease capturing equipment that must be installed by food service establishments;
		2.	Provide for the effective long-term use of grease capturing equipment through related operational requirements and prohibitions, and periodic inspections; 
		3.	Increase opportunities for recovering from wastewater discharge lines both food solids (which can be composted) and waste grease (which can be recycled, and may also be able to be converted to biofuel); 
		4.	Aid in preventing sanitary sewer blockages and obstructions from contributions and accumulation of fats, oils and grease in the sanitary sewerage system; 
		5.	Prevent the uncontrolled introduction of fats, oils and grease into the sewage system that will interfere with its operation; and 
		6.	Facilitate City compliance with applicable federal and state laws regarding sewerage system operations.
(Added by Ord. 18-11, File No. 101147, App 2/16/2011)
SEC. 140.1.  APPLICABILITY.
	The provisions of sections 118-139 of this Article apply to the discharge of fats, oils and grease to the City's sewerage system, except to the extent different requirements or procedures are provided in sections 140.1-140.7 of this Article. Sections 140.1-140.7 of this Article are intended to complement, rather than supersede, the provisions of City building codes and regulations applicable to the installation and operation of grease capturing equipment. Sections 140-140.7 shall be effective on and after April 1, 2011. 
(Added by Ord. 18-11, File No. 101147, App 2/16/2011)
SEC. 140.2.  DEFINITIONS.
	In addition to the definitions provided in section 119 of this Article, the following definitions are applicable to the discharge and control of fats, oils and grease: 
	a.	Best Management Practices (BMPs). Operational activities, prohibitions, maintenance procedures, and other management activities that implement the requirements of this Article, state and federal law, and Department rules, regulations, permits or authorizations. 
	b.	Fats, Oils and Grease (FOG). Organic polar compounds derived from vegetable/plant or animal sources composed of long-chain triglycerides that are used in, or are byproducts of, the cooking or food preparation process. A wide range of food preparation activities, including but not limited to the following, can generate fats, oils or grease: cooking by frying, baking, grilling, sauteing, rotisserie cooking, broiling, boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting, poaching, infrared heating, searing, barbequing, or any other food preparation activity that produces a hot food product in or on a receptacle that requires washing. 
	c.	First Certificate of Occupancy. A temporary certificate of occupancy or a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy, as defined in San Francisco Building Code Section 109A, whichever is issued first. 
	d.	Food Service Establishment (FSE). A non-residential wastewater discharger that engages in activities of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available food for consumption by the public or on the premises, including restaurants, commercial kitchens, caterers, hotels and motels, schools, hospitals, prisons, correctional facilities, nursing homes, care institutions, and any other facility preparing and serving food for public consumption. Food Service Establishments consist of the following four categories of FOG dischargers: 
		i.	Category 4 FOG Discharger: A FSE that engages only in reheating, hot holding, or assembly of ready to eat food products. Category 4 FOG Dischargers are also referred to as Limited Food Preparation Establishments. 
		ii.	Category 3 FOG Discharger: A FSE that, in the process of preparing and making food available to the public or on the premises, generates FOG that is discharged into the City's sewerage system, and has been determined by the General Manager to pose a less-significant risk of discharging FOG to the sewerage system. Category 3 FOG Dischargers are also referred to as Less-Significant Grease Dischargers. 
		iii.	Category 2 FOG Discharger: A FSE that, in the process of preparing and making food available to the public or on the premises, generates FOG that is discharged into the City's sewerage system, and, prior to April 1, 2011, had installed grease capturing equipment that was properly sized and installed, and remains fully operational and properly maintained and serviced, as determined by the General Manager. 
		iv.	Category 1 FOG Discharger: A FSE that, in the process of preparing and making food available to the public or on the premises, generates FOG that is discharged into the City's sewerage system, and does not meet the criteria for Category 2, Category 3 or Category 4 FOG Dischargers. 
	e.	Gravity Grease Interceptor (GGI). A plumbing appurtenance or appliance that is installed in a sanitary drainage system to intercept non-petroleum fats, oils and grease from a wastewater discharge and is identified primarily by gravity separation and a minimum total volume of 300 gallons. 
	f.	Grease Capturing Equipment. A plumbing appurtenance or appliance that is installed in a sanitary drainage system to separate fats, oils and grease from a wastewater discharge. Grease capturing equipment include gravity grease interceptors, hydromechanical grease interceptors, grease removal devices and any other grease capturing equipment authorized by the General Manager or the Department. 
	g.	Grease Capturing Equipment Waste. Material collected in and from grease capturing equipment, including any solids resulting from dewatering processes. 
	h.	Grease Removal Device (GRD). Any hydromechanical grease interceptor that automatically, mechanically removes non-petroleum fats, oils and grease from the interceptor, the control of which are either automatic or manually initiated. 
	i.	Hydromechanical Grease Interceptor (HGI). A plumbing appurtenance or appliance that is installed in a sanitary drainage system to intercept non-petroleum fats, oils and grease from a wastewater discharge and is identified primarily by a design that incorporates hydromechanical separation. 
	j.	Less-Significant Grease Discharger. A FSE Category 3 FOG Discharger. 
	k.	Limited Food Preparation Establishment. A FSE Category 4 FOG Discharger. 
(Added by Ord. 18-11, File No. 101147, App 2/16/2011)
SEC. 140.3.  PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
	a.	Disposal of Fats, Oils and Grease or any food waste containing Fats, Oils and Grease directly into drains leading to the sewer system is prohibited, except in accordance with this Article, the Department's rules and regulations, and applicable building codes and regulations. 
	b.	Notwithstanding section 123(e)(3) of this Article, installation of garbage grinders in new Food Service Establishments is prohibited. Garbage grinders in existing Food Service Establishments shall be removed or rendered permanently inoperative by May 1, 2011. 
	c.	Discharge of wastewater with temperature higher than 140 to or through grease capturing equipment is prohibited.
	d.	Discharge of wastewater from dishwashers to or through grease capturing equipment is prohibited.
	e.	Discharge of water closets, urinals, and other plumbing fixtures conveying human waste to or through any type of grease capturing equipment is prohibited. 
	f.	The concentration of Fats, Oils and Grease discharged from Food Service Establishments into the City's sewerage system shall not exceed the discharge limit for total recoverable oil and grease established pursuant to Article 4.1 of the San Francisco Public Works Code, as amended from time to time. 
	g.	The discharge of solvents or additives that emulsify grease into drainage pipes leading to grease capturing equipment is prohibited.
	h.	The use of biological additives, including, but not limited to enzymes, into drainage pipes leading to grease capturing equipment is prohibited. 
(Added by Ord. 18-11, File No. 101147, App 2/16/2011)
SEC. 140.4.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
	a.	All Food Service Establishments, with the exception of Limited Food Preparation Establishments, shall install, operate, maintain and service Grease Capturing Equipment and implement specified Best Management Practices, in accordance with this Article, any permits, authorizations, rules and regulations issued by the General Manager and Department, and applicable City building codes and regulations. 
	b.	All Food Service Establishments shall properly store and recycle or dispose of Fats, Oils and Grease diverted from their liquid wastestreams in accordance with all laws and regulations applicable to such storage, recycling and disposal. 
	c.	All Food Service Establishment kitchen fixtures connected to drainage pipes that lead to grease capturing equipment or sewer laterals shall have small-mesh food strainers that are intact and functional. 
	d.	All Food Service Establishment wastewater dischargers must at all times comply with the provisions of this Article, all other applicable local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to applicable provisions of the San Francisco Health Code and San Francisco Building and Plumbing Codes, and applicable rules, regulations, permits and authorizations issued by the General Manager and the Department. 
	e.	All Food Service Establishments shall ensure that all pots, pans, dishware and work areas are wiped prior to washing of such utensils, equipment or areas; and shall implement any other Best Management Practices deemed appropriate by the General Manager or the Department. 
	f.	All Food Service Establishments shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit or other authorization if required by the General Manager. 
(Added by Ord. 18-11, File No. 101147, App 2/16/2011)
SEC. 140.5.  GREASE CAPTURING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
	a.	All grease capturing equipment shall be installed in accordance with this Article, any permits, authorizations, rules and regulations issued by the General Manager and the Department, and applicable City building codes and regulations. 
	b.	Any Grease Removal Devices installed by a Food Service Establishment in accordance with the requirements of this Article shall conform to standards or guidelines deemed applicable by the General Manager or the Department. 
	c.	Category 1 FOG Dischargers shall install a Grease Removal Device (or a Gravity Grease Interceptor) in accordance with the provisions of this Article within 60 days of notification by the General Manager, but in any event no later than July 1, 2013. 
	d.	Category 2 FOG Dischargers shall install a Grease Removal Device (or a Gravity Grease Interceptor) in accordance with the provisions of this Article and within a time period specified by the Department when notification is given to the FSE, if one or more of the following conditions applies, as determined by the General Manager: 
		i.	The pre-existing grease capturing equipment is not properly sized, properly installed, fully operational or properly maintained and serviced. 
		ii.	The wastewater discharge from the FSE does not comply with the City's wastewater discharge limit for total recoverable oil and grease. 
		iii.	The FSE is causing or contributing to grease accumulation problems in sewer laterals or sewer mains.
		iv.	Some or all of the fats, oils and grease waste containing discharge lines are not connected to pre-existing grease capturing equipment, and connecting these to pre-existing grease capturing equipment is not appropriate. 
	e.	Category 3 or Category 4 FOG Dischargers that change operations to the extent that the FSE no longer meets the definition of a Category 3 or Category 4 FOG discharger, shall comply with the grease capturing equipment requirements of Category 1 or Category 2 FOG Dischargers, whichever is applicable, as determined by the General Manager. 
	f.	Category 3 or Category 4 FOG Dischargers causing or contributing to grease accumulation problems in sewer laterals or sewer mains, as determined by the General Manager, shall comply with the grease capturing equipment requirements of Category 1 or Category 2 FOG Dischargers, whichever is applicable, as determined by the General Manager. 
	g.	A Food Service Establishment may file a request to the General Manager for a variance from the Grease Removal Device installation requirements of this Article if the FSE can demonstrate that it is not feasible for a Grease Removal Device to be installed due to lack of physical space. The Food Service Establishment requesting such a variance shall bear the burden of demonstrating that the installation of a Grease Removal Device is not feasible. The determination as to whether a FSE qualifies for a variance for the reasons detailed in this subsection shall be at the sole discretion of the General Manager. 
(Added by Ord. 18-11, File No. 101147, App 2/16/2011)
SEC. 140.6.  NEW CONSTRUCTION, CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP, AND REMODELING.
	a.	The following requirements shall apply when ownership of an existing Food Service Establishment changes:
		1.	Within 30 days of the official transfer of ownership, the new owner shall apply for a Food Service Establishment Wastewater Discharge Permit, or other authorization, as required by the Department rules and regulations. The application shall describe any changes in food preparation and/or kitchen fixtures that could affect the FOG Discharger category that was assigned to the establishment under its previous ownership. 
	b.	The following requirements shall apply to newly constructed Food Service Establishments:
		1.	Category 3 FOG Dischargers, also referred to as Less-Significant Grease Dischargers, shall install Grease Capturing Equipment and the equipment shall be operational prior to commencing the discharge of wastewater from food processing and/or kitchen areas into the City's sewerage system. 
		2.	Category 1 FOG Dischargers shall install a Grease Removal Device or a Gravity Grease Interceptor and the equipment shall be installed and operational prior to commencing the discharge of wastewater from food processing and/or kitchen areas into the City's sewerage system. 
		3.	No City department shall issue a First Certificate of Occupancy to a new Food Service Establishment until it has complied with this section. 
	c.	Any existing non-Food Service Establishment business that expands or renovates its operations to include a Food Service Establishment, with the exception of a Limited Food Preparation Establishment, shall comply with the requirements of section 140.6(b)(1) or 140.6(b)(2), whichever is applicable. 
	d.	Existing Food Service Establishments proposing remodeling or renovations that require a plumbing permit for work in food processing and/or kitchen areas and meet the criteria below shall be required to install, as part of their project, a Grease Removal Device or Gravity Grease Interceptor that complies with this Article and applicable City building codes: 
		1.	Modifications are proposed to under-slab plumbing in the food processing or kitchen areas; and/or
		2.	An increase in the size of the kitchen area is proposed; and/or
		3.	Changes to the size and/or type of food preparation equipment are proposed which will increase the amount of fats, oils and grease discharged into the sewerage system. 
(Added by Ord. 18-11, File No. 101147, App 2/16/2011)
SEC. 140.7.  MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONS.
	a.	Grease capturing equipment must be operated and maintained effectively and properly at all times, and in accordance with any rules and regulations issued by the General Manager and the Department. Food Service Establishments shall be required to keep and/or provide equipment maintenance and service logs or receipts, and to retain such logs on-site. 
	b.	Grease capturing equipment shall be maintained at a frequency such that the combined fats, oil and grease and solids accumulation does not exceed 25% of the total hydraulic depth of the equipment. 
	c.	Food Service Establishments shall comply with any Department directive to increase the frequency of Grease Capturing Equipment servicing, if the frequency of servicing is not adequate to ensure that the combined fats, oil and grease and solids accumulation does not exceed 25% of the total hydraulic depth of the equipment. 
	d.	In addition to the specific grease capturing equipment operation and maintenance requirements in this Article, Food Service Establishments must follow the manufacturers' recommendations and guidelines for appropriate operation and maintenance of the grease capturing equipment. Information on the manufacturer-recommended operations and maintenance of the grease capturing equipment shall be retained on-site by the Food Service Establishment. 
	e.	Gravity Grease Interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of accumulated waste content as required to maintain efficient operations and shall be pumped out and cleaned only by a waste hauler certified by the California Department of Food and Agriculture. 
	f.	Grease Capturing Equipment Waste that is removed by any means other than self-cleaning must be removed by a grease hauler certified by the California Department of Food and Agriculture. The maintenance records signed by the certified grease hauler shall be retained on-site by the Food Service Establishment for three years. 
	g.	Materials removed from grease capturing equipment shall not be reinserted into the interceptor or allowed to pass into the sewerage system. 
	h.	Best Management Practices regarding maintenance and operations of grease capturing equipment, specified by the Department, shall be implemented by all Food Service Establishments. 
(Added by Ord. 18-11, File No. 101147, App 2/16/2011)
ARTICLE 4.2.
SEWER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
[Construction Site Runoff]Sec. 146.Construction Site Runoff Control.Sec. 146.1.Definitions.Sec. 146.2.Emergency Action.Sec. 146.3.Land-disturbing Activities.Sec. 146.4.Erosion and Sediment Control Performance Standards.Sec. 146.5.Construction Site Runoff Control Permit.Sec. 146.6.Permit Process.Sec. 146.7.Erosion and Sediment Control Plan.Sec. 146.8.Maintenance and Inspection Requirements.Sec. 146.10.Enforcement.Sec. 146.11.Severability.[Stormwater]Sec. 147.Stormwater Management.Sec. 147.1.Definitions.Sec. 147.2.Stormwater Control PlanSec. 147.3.Limitations and Prohibited Discharges.Sec. 147.4.Compliance with Maintenance and Inspection Requirements.Sec. 147.5.Enforcement and Cost Reimbursement.Sec. 147.6.Severability.
Editor's Notes:
	The bracketed division headers in this Article have been provided by the editor for the convenience of the user and are not official parts of this Code.
	Ordinance 83-10 repealed former Secs. 140-149.4 and enacted new material currently codified as Secs. 147-147.6.
[Construction Site Runoff]
SEC. 146.  CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF CONTROL.
	(a)	The purpose of Sections 146 through 146.11 of Article 4.2 and the City's construction site runoff control program is to protect water quality by controlling the discharge of sediment or other pollutants from construction sites and preventing erosion and sedimentation due to construction activities.
	(b)	Construction sites can be significant sources of pollution. Materials from construction sites such as concrete, mortars, disturbed soil, sawdust, paint chips, and other debris can be easily transported off construction sites by runoff and wind, and eventually may be washed into storm drains during street cleaning and rainy weather. These sediments can damage infrastructure as well as cause many water quality concerns.
	(c)	Construction sediment and debris can create local flood hazards by clogging the storm drains and sewer system and reduce the flow capacity, allowing wastewater to spill onto the streets. These sediments are abrasive, and can degrade the pump stations in the sewer system, causing increased maintenance costs, as well as carry toxic pollutants to the bay, local lakes, and the ocean. Also, construction runoff and debris can reduce the capacity and treatment efficiency of the City's collection and wastewater treatment facilities operating during wet weather.
	(d)	Sections 146-146.11 of Article 4.2 set forth uniform requirements and prohibitions for dischargers and places of discharge to the City's Sewerage System necessary to provide for the protection of water quality and the City's Sewerage System. By implementing these controls, the City is protecting and promoting the public health, safety, and general welfare of its residents, businesses, and visitors.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
SEC. 146.1.  DEFINITIONS.
	The definitions provided in Section 119 of Article 4.1 of this Code apply to Sections 146-146.11 of Article 4.2, in addition to the following defined terms:
	Applicant. The Owner and any of the Owner's authorized representatives who submit an application to the General Manager for a Construction Site Runoff Control Permit pursuant to this Article.
	Construction Project. Any construction or demolition activity disturbing 5,000 square feet or more of the ground surface, measured cumulatively, undertaken after January 1, 2014, including any Land-disturbing Activities.
	Construction Site Best Management Practice or "BMP." Any program, technology, technique, process, operating method, measure or device which controls prevents, removes or reduces pollution, erosion and sediment transport in runoff from construction sites.
	Construction Site Runoff Control Permit. Authorization issued by the General Manager for the commencement of a Construction Project in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
	Construction Site Runoff Control Regulations. A compilation of technical standards and design specifications adopted by the General Manager for controlling construction related surface runoff, erosion and sedimentation.
	Erosion. The washing or wearing away of ground surface as a result of the movement of wind, water, or Land-disturbing Activities.
	Erosion and Sediment Control Plan. A plan or set of plans indicating the specific BMPs or equivalent measures and sequencing to be used to control Erosion and sediment on a Construction Project.
	Erosion Control. A BMP that prevents Erosion. 
	General Manager. The General Manager of the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, or his or her designee.
	Land-disturbing Activities. Any movement of earth or a change in the existing soil cover or existing topography that may result in soil erosion from wind, or water, and the movement of sediments into or upon waters, lands, or public rights-of-way within the City and County of San Francisco, including, but not limited to building demolition, clearing, grading, grubbing, filling, stockpiling, excavating and transporting of land.
	Owner. Any Person with legal or equitable interest in the land for which a Construction Site Runoff Control Permit has been issued.
	Permittee. The Applicant in whose name a valid permit is issued pursuant to Section 146.5, and his or her agents, employees, and others acting under his or her direction.
	Runoff. Any water flowing over the ground surface that leaves the Site.
	Sediment Control. A BMP that prevents eroded sediment from leaving the Site.
	Site. The entire area ofland covered by the Construction Site Runoff Control Permit on which the land-disturbing activities are conducted.
	Start of Construction. The first Land-disturbing Activities associated with a Construction Project.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
SEC. 146.2.  EMERGENCY ACTION.
	Any emergency action immediately necessary tor the protection of life, health, or property is exempt from obtaining a Construction Site Runoff Control Permit. An emergency that warrants emergency action is a sudden, unforeseeable and unexpected occurrence involving a clear and imminent danger, demanding immediate action to prevent or mitigate loss of or damage to, life, health, or property. Any Land-disturbing Activities performed after the clear and imminent danger has been alleviated shall not constitute an emergency, and must be performed in compliance with Sections 146-146.11 of this Article.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
SEC. 146.3.  LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES.
	(a)	Any person performing Land-disturbing Activities shall implement and maintain BMPs to minimize surface Runoff Erosion, and sedimentation.
	(b)	Whenever the General Manager determines that any Land-disturbing Activity has become a hazard to life and limb, or endangers the property of another, or adversely affects the safety, use, slope, or soil stability of a public right-of way, publicly controlled wetland, or Sewerage System, the Owner of the property upon which the Land-disturbing Activity is located, or other person or agent in control of said property, upon receipt of notice from the General Manager, shall within the period specified therein repair or eliminate such conditions.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
SEC. 146.4.  EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
	(a)	A Land-disturbing Activity shall be considered in violation of Sections 146-146.11 of Article 4.2 if eroded sediment has been deposited onto adjacent properties, a public right-of-way, a publicly controlled wetland, or the Sewerage System.
	(b)	The design, testing, installation, and maintenance of erosion and sediment control operations and facilities shall adhere to the standards and specifications contained in the Construction Site Runoff Regulations.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
SEC. 146.5.  CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF CONTROL PERMIT.
	(a)	Any person proposing to undertake Land-disturbing Activities shall apply for a Construction Site Runoff Control Permit prior to commencing a Construction Project. Commencing Land-disturbing Activities or a Construction Project prior to issuance of the Construction Site Runoff Control Permit, or performing such activities in excess of or inconsistent with Construction Site Runoff Control Permit requirements is a violation of Sections 146-146.11 of Article 4.2.
	(b)	Unless and until a Construction Site Runoff Control Permit has been issued by the General Manager, no City department shall approve or issue: 
		(1)	a site or building permit;
		(2)	a demolition permit;
		(3)	a permit to grade, quarry, fill, or excavate;
		(4)	a public right of way encroachment permit.
	(c)	Permittees shall comply with all permit conditions authorized by the General Manager, including, but not limited to:
		(1)	The granting (or securing from others) and the recording in City land records of easements for drainage facilities, including the acceptance of their discharge on the property of others, and for the maintenance of slopes or erosion controls,
		(2)	Adequate control of dust by watering, or other control methods acceptable to the General Manager, and in conformance with applicable air pollution laws and regulations,
		(3)	Improvements of any existing grading, ground surface, or drainage condition on the site (not to exceed the area as proposed for work or development in the application) to meet the standards required under this Article for new grading, drainage and erosion control, 
		(4)	Payment of charges to defray increased costs to the City created by the Land-disturbing Activity, and
		(5)	Any other conditions and terms deemed necessary by the General Manager to achieve the objectives of Sections 146-146.11 of Article 4.2.
	(d)	Reimbursement. Each Permittee shall reimburse the City, in addition to any applicable sewer service fees, for the inspection and monitoring, administration, incidental expenses, and payment of penalties imposed on the City by enforcement agencies caused by any violation of the Construction Site Runoff Control Permit.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
SEC. 146.6.  PERMIT PROCESS.
	(a)	Persons commencing Construction Projects after January 1, 2014, must obtain a Construction Site Runoff Control Permit prior to the commencement of Land-disturbing Activities.
	(b)	A written application, in a format provided by the General Manager, from the Applicant shall be submitted to the General Manager for each Construction Site Runoff Control Permit.
	(c)	An application for a Construction Site Runoff Control Permit shall include an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan for each Construction Project that conforms to the format and criteria provided by the General Manager.
	(d)	The General Manager may grant or deny the Construction Site Runoff Control Permit, or require further information or analysis pertinent to compliance with this Article.
	(e)	The Permittee shall maintain a copy of the Construction Site Runoff Control Permit and approved plans and reports required under the permit on the work site and available for public inspection during all working hours.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
SEC. 146.7.  EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.
	(a)	The Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall include a vicinity map showing the location of the site in relationship to the surrounding area's water courses, water bodies, and other significant geographic features; a site survey; suitable contours for the existing and proposed topography, area drainage, proposed construction and sequencing, proposed drainage channels; proposed erosion and sediment controls; dewatering controls where applicable; soil stabilization measures where applicable; maintenance controls; sampling, monitoring, and reporting schedules; and any other information deemed necessary by the General Manager.
	(b)	Any Person performing Land-disturbing Activities at sites greater than or equal to one acre within a separate sewer system area may submit to the General Manager the Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) used to comply with the State of California's General Permit for Discharges of Storm Water Associated with Construction Activity in lieu of an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
SEC. 146.8.  MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
	(a)	Daily Maintenance. The Permittee shall daily inspect, maintain, and repair all graded surfaces and erosion and sediment controls, drainage structures, and other protective devices, plantings, and ground cover installed while construction is active.
	(b)	Reporting. Every person who operates any erosion and sediment control or controls must provide inspection and maintenance information as set forth in the Construction Site Runoff Control Permit, and certify under penalty of perjury that such information is accurate and true.
	(c)	Inspections. Permittees shall permit the General Manager to perform inspections as may be deemed necessary in the General Manager's sole discretion to carry out the intent of this Article.
	(d)	Milestone Notification. The Permittee shall notify the General Manager at least two working days before the following milestones occur:
		(1)	Start of construction.
		(2)	Erosion and sediment control measures are completely installed and stabilized.
		(3)	Final grading has been completed.
		(4)	Project completion.
	(e)	Authority to Sample and Establish Sampling Devices. Permittees shall provide devices or locations necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations, if requested by the General Manager.
	(f)	Requirement to Test or Monitor. Permittees shall undertake such monitoring activities or analysis and furnish such reports as the General Manager may specify, if requested by the General Manager.
	(g)	Notification of Spills. All Persons responsible for implementing BMPs shall provide immediate notification to the General Manager of any suspected, confirmed or unconfirmed release of Pollutants that creates a risk of non-stormwater discharge into any of the City's sewer systems. Such persons shall take all necessary steps to ensure the detection and containment and cleanup of such release.
	(h)	Public Right-of-Ways. The Permittee shall be responsible for the prompt removal of, and the correction of damage resulting from any soil, miscellaneous debris or other materials washed, spilled, tracked dumped or otherwise deposited on public streets, highways, sidewalks or other public  thoroughfare, incident to the construction activity, or during transit to and tram the construction site.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
SEC. 146.10.  ENFORCEMENT.
	Persons violating any provision of the Construction Site Runoff Control Permit or Sections 146-146.11 of this Article or applicable laws or regulations are subject to enforcement by the General Manager pursuant to Section 132 of Article 4.1 of this Code. Persons violating Sections 146-146.11 of Article 4.2 or applicable laws or regulations are subject to penalties and abatement in accordance with Sections 133 and 134 of Article 4.1 of this Code, and any other remedies allowed by law.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
SEC. 146.11.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Article. The Board of Supervisors declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases could be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
(Added by Ord. 260-13, File No. 130814, App. 11/14/2013, Eff. 12/14/2013)
[Stormwater]
SEC. 147.  STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
	(a)	The intent of Sections 147-147.6 is to protect and enhance the water quality in the City and County of San Francisco's sewer system, stormwater collection system and receiving waters pursuant to, and consistent with Federal and State laws, lawful standards and orders applicable to stormwater and urban runoff control, and the City's authority to manage and operate its drainage systems. 
	(b)	Urban runoff is a significant cause of pollution throughout California. Pollutants of concern found in urban runoff include sediments, non-sediment solids, nutrients, pathogens, oxygen-demanding substances, petroleum hydrocarbons, heavy metals, floatables, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), trash, and pesticides and herbicides. 
	(c)	During urban development, two important changes occur. First, where no urban development has previously occurred, natural vegetated pervious ground cover is converted to impervious surfaces such as paved highways, streets, rooftops, and parking lots. Natural vegetated soil can both absorb rainwater and remove pollutants, providing a very effective purification process. Because pavement and concrete can neither absorb water nor remove pollutants, the natural purification characteristics of the land are lost. Second, urban development creates new pollutant sources, including vehicle emissions, vehicle maintenance wastes, pesticides, household hazardous wastes, pet wastes, trash, and other contaminants that can be washed into the City's stormwater collection systems. 
	(d)	A high percentage of impervious area correlates to a higher rate of stormwater runoff, which generates greater pollutant loadings to the stormwater collection system, resulting in turbid water, nutrient enrichment, bacterial contamination, toxic compounds, temperature increases, and increases of trash or debris. 
	(e)	When water quality impacts are considered during the planning stages of a project, new development and redevelopment projects can more efficiently incorporate measures to protect water quality. 
	(f)	Sections 147-147.6 protect the health, safety and general welfare of the City's residents by:
		(1)	minimizing increases in pollution caused by stormwater runoff from development that would otherwise degrade local water quality;
		(3)	controlling the discharge to the City's sewer and drainage systems from spills, dumping or disposal of pollutants; and
		(4)	reducing stormwater run-off rates, volume, and nonpoint source pollution whenever possible, through stormwater management controls, and ensuring that these management controls are safe and properly maintained. 
(Added by Ord. 83-10, File No. 100102, 4/22/2010)
SEC. 147.1.  DEFINITIONS.
	In addition to the definitions provided in section 119 of Article 4.1 of this Code, the following definitions shall apply: 
	(a)	Best management practices or "BMPs." Structural devices, measures, or programs used to reduce pollution in stormwater runoff. BMPs manage the quantity and improve the quality of development runoff in accordance with the Guidelines and applicable state and federal regulatory requirements. 
	(b)	Department. The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission. With regard to stormwater management in areas of the City under the jurisdiction of the Port Commission, "Department" means the San Francisco Port Commission until the Port Commission adopts its own standards and procedures. 
	(c)	Development Project. Any activity disturbing 5,000 square feet or more of the ground surface, measured cumulatively from the effective date of this Article. Activities that disturb the ground surface include, but are not limited to, the construction, modification, conversion, or alteration of any building or structure and associated grading, filling, excavation, change in the existing topography, and the addition or replacement of impervious surface. All sidewalks, parking, driveways, and landscaped and irrigated areas constructed in conjunction with the Development Project are included in the project area. Development Projects do not include interior remodeling projects, maintenance activities such as top-layer grinding, repaving, and re-roofing, or modifications, conversions or alterations of buildings or structures that does not increase the ground surface footprint of the building or structure. 
	(d)	Development runoff requirements. The performance standards set forth in the Guidelines to address both the construction and post-construction phase impacts of new Development Projects on stormwater quality. 
	(e)	General Manager. The General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission of the City, or a designated representative of the General Manager. With regard to stormwater management in areas of the City under the jurisdiction of the Port Commission, the Executive Director of the San Francisco Port Commission or a designated representative of the Executive Director shall have the same authority under this Article as the General Manager until the Port Commission adopts it own standards and procedures regarding stormwater management in all areas under Port Commission jurisdiction. 
	(f)	Guidelines. The Stormwater Design Guidelines adopted by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission or the San Francisco Port Commission. The Guidelines contain requirements pertaining to the type, design, sizing, and maintenance of post-construction stormwater BMPs. 
	(g)	Low Impact Design (LID). A stormwater management approach that promotes the use of ecological and landscape-based systems that mimic pre-development drainage patterns and hydrologic processes by increasing retention, detention, infiltration, and treatment of stormwater at its source. 
	(h)	Non-Stormwater Discharge. Any discharge to the City's Stormwater Collection System that is not composed entirely of Stormwater. 
	(i)	Pollutant. Any substance listed in sec. 119(aa) of Article 4.1 of the Public Works Code or any substance described as a pollutant in the Guidelines. 
	(j)	Separate Stormwater/$sewer System. Stormwater and sanitary sewage collection facilities that convey, treat and discharge stormwater and sewage in separated catchbasins, pipelines, treatment facilities, outfalls, and other facilities, and do not combine stormwater and sewage in the same facilities. 
	(k)	Stormwater. Water that originates from atmospheric moisture (rainfall or snowfall) and that falls onto land, water or other surfaces. 
	(l)	Stormwater Collection System. All City facilities operated by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission or the Port of San Francisco for collecting, transporting, treating and disposing of stormwater. For purposes of this Article, the Stormwater Collection System includes facilities owned and operated by public entities other than the City, where such facilities direct stormwater into the Stormwater Collection System and are subject to the jurisdiction of the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission or the Port of San Francisco as defined by law, contract, or interjurisdictional agreement. 
	(m)	Stormwater Control. A device designed to remove pollution in stormwater runoff through detention, retention, filtration, direct plant uptake, or infiltration. 
	(n)	Stormwater Control Plan. A plan that meets all applicable criteria, performance standards and other requirements contained in this Article and the Guidelines. 
(Added by Ord. 83-10, File No. 100102, 4/22/2010)
SEC. 147.2.  STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
	(a)	Development Projects. Every application for a Development Project, including, but not limited to, a building or encroachment permit conditional use permit, variance, site permit, or design review, shall be accompanied by a Stormwater Control Plan that meets the stormwater control criteria provided by the Guidelines. No City department shall approve or issue a conditional use permit, variance, site permit, design review approval, building or encroachment permit unless and until a Stormwater Control Plan developed in accordance with this Article and the Guidelines has been approved by the General Manager. All projects subject to the stormwater management requirements of Chapter 13C of the San Francisco Building Code shall comply with the requirements of the Guidelines. 
	(b)	Subdivision Approvals.
		(1)	Parcel Map or Tentative Subdivision Map Conditions. The Director of Public Works shall not approve a tentative subdivision map or a parcel map for any property unless a condition is imposed requiring compliance with all applicable Stormwater Control Plans to serve the potential uses of the property covered by the parcel map or tentative subdivision map, as may be further specified in the provisions of this Article or the Guidelines. 
		(2)	Subdivision Regulations. The Director of Public Works shall adopt regulations as necessary, consistent with and in furtherance of this Article, to ensure that all subdividers of property subject to the provisions of this ordinance provide a Stormwater Control Plan in compliance with this Article and the Guidelines. 
		(3)	Final Maps. The Director of Public Works shall not endorse and file a final map for property within the boundaries of the City and County of San Francisco without first determining whether: 
			(A)	The subdivider has complied with the conditions imposed on the tentative subdivision map or parcel map, pursuant to this Article and the Guidelines; and 
			(B)	For any such conditions not fully satisfied prior to the recordation of the final map, the subdivider has signed a certificate of agreement and/or improvement agreement, to ensure compliance with such conditions. 
		(4)	This Subsection (b) shall not apply to tentative subdivision maps or parcel maps submitted solely for the purposes of condominium conversion, as defined in San Francisco Subdivision Code Section 1308(d). 
(Added by Ord. 83-10, File No. 100102, 4/22/2010)
SEC. 147.3.  LIMITATIONS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
	(a)	The establishment, use, maintenance or continuation of any unauthorized drainage connections to the Stormwater Collection System is prohibited. 
	(b)	The discharge of Pollutants and Non-stormwater Discharges into the stormwater collection facilities located in the Separate Stormwater/sewer System portions of the Stormwater Collection System is prohibited, except as provided in this section. 
	(c)	The following discharges are exempt from the prohibitions set forth subsection (b) above if the Regional Water Quality Control Board approves the exempted category under section C. 11. of the City's NPDES permit: uncontaminated pumped groundwater, foundation drains, water from crawl space pumps, footing drains, air conditioning condensate, irrigation water, landscape irrigation, lawn or garden watering, planned and unplanned discharges from potable water sources, water line and hydrant flushing, individual residential car washing, discharges or flows from emergency fire fighting activities, dechlorinated swimming pool discharges. 
(Added by Ord. 83-10, File No. 100102, 4/22/2010)
SEC. 147.4.  COMPLIANCE WITH MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
	(a)	All Stormwater Controls shall be maintained according to the Guidelines and the operation and maintenance plan included in the approved Stormwater Control Plan. The person(s) or organization(s) responsible for maintenance shall be designated in the plan. Those persons responsible for maintenance shall inspect the Stormwater Controls at least annually and shall maintain the Stormwater Controls as required by the Guidelines and described in the Stormwater Control Plan. 
	(b)	Operation and Maintenance Inspection and Certificates. Every person who owns, leases or operates any Stormwater Control or Controls must provide annual self-certification for inspection and maintenance, as set forth in the Guidelines. 
	(c)	The General Manager may perform routine or scheduled inspections, as may be deemed necessary in the General Manager's sole discretion to carry out the intent of this Article and the Guidelines, including, but not limited to, random sampling or sampling in areas with evidence of Stormwater contamination, evidence of the discharge of Non-stormwater to the Stormwater Collection System, or similar activities. 
	(d)	Authority to Sample and Establish Sampling Devices. The General Manager may require any person discharging Stormwater to the Stormwater Collection System to provide devices or locations necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. 
	(e)	Notification of Spills. All persons in charge of the Stormwater Controls shall provide immediate notification to the General Manager of any suspected, confirmed or unconfirmed release of pollutants creating a risk of non-stormwater discharge into the Stormwater Collection System. Such persons shall take all necessary steps to ensure the detection and containment and clean up of such release. This notification requirement is in addition to and not in lieu of other required notifications. 
	(f)	Requirement to Test or Monitor. The General Manager may require that any person responsible for Stormwater Controls undertake such monitoring activities or analysis and furnish such reports as the General Manager may specify. 
(Added by Ord. 83-10, File No. 100102, 4/22/2010)
SEC. 147.5  ENFORCEMENT AND COST REIMBURSEMENT.
	Any violation of this Article may be enforced by the General Manager pursuant to section 132 of Article 4.1 of the Public Works Code. Persons violating any provision of this Article, the Guidelines, or department regulations may be subject to penalties and abatement in accordance with the Guidelines and sections 133 and 134 of Article 4.1 of the Public Works Code. 
(Added by Ord. 83-10, File No. 100102, 4/22/2010)
SEC. 147.6  SEVERABILITY.
	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Article, is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Article. The Board of Supervisors declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Article irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases could be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. 
(Added by Ord. 83-10, File No. 100102, 4/22/2010)
ARTICLE 4.3:
SEWERS
Sec. 150.1.Definitions.Sec. 150.2.Owner Responsibility for Water Service Charges and Industrial Cost Recovery Surcharges.Sec. 150.3.Department Entitled to Payment.Sec. 150.4.Collection of Delinquent Service Charges through Recordation of a Lien.Sec. 150.5.Lien Proceedings; Additional Request for Payment; Warning Notice.Sec. 150.6.Lien Proceedings; Report and Notice.Sec. 150.7.Hearing.Sec. 150.8.Creation of Lien.Sec. 150.9.Recordation; Administrative Fees and Interest.Sec. 150.10.Filing of Lien With Controller and Tax Collector; Collection of Delinquent Accounts by the Bureau of Delinquent Revenue.Sec. 150.11.Payment of Amount Owed; Release of Lien; Distribution of Proceeds.Sec. 150.12.Write-off of Uncollectible Accounts; Compromise or Abandonment of Claims.Sec. 150.13.Severability.
SEC. 150.1.  DEFINITIONS.
	Unless the context otherwise specifies or requires, the terms defined in this Section shall, for all purposes of this article, have the meanings herein specified, the following definitions to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of any of the terms herein defined: 
	(a)	The term "City" means the City and County of San Francisco;
	(b)	The term "Department" means the Public Utilities Department of the City and County of San Francisco;
	(c)	The term "Manager" means the Manager of the Customer Service Bureau of the Public Utilities Department, or his authorized agents; 
	(d)	The term "real property" means a lot or building thereon or other facility whether private, governmental or otherwise in the City and County of San Francisco; 
	(e)	The term "Commission" means the Public Utilities Commission of the City and County of San Francisco, or its designated agent;
	(f)	The term "owner" when used with reference to real property shall mean, and shall conclusively be deemed to be, the legal owner of the real property, except, when the legal owner of said real property is such due to the holding of a mortgage, note or other such security, in which case the "owner" shall be deemed to be the beneficial owner of said real property. 
	(g)	The term "Committee" means the Lien Hearing Committee comprised of three members as designated by the General Manager of Utilities or his designee. 
	(h)	The term "customer" means the person subscribing for water and sewer service from the Public Utilities Department, whether or not such person is the owner of the property to which such service is rendered. 
	(i)	The phrase "Bureau of Delinquent Revenue" means the Bureau of Delinquent Revenue Collection with the Tax Collector's Office, as set forth in San Francisco Administrative Code Section 10.37. 
(Amended by Ord. 223-81, App. 5/4/81; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.2.  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE CHARGES AND INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY SURCHARGES.
	Except for tenant occupied individually metered residential dwellings, the owner of any real property shall be responsible for subscribing to and paying for water service to such real property by Department in accordance with rate schedules, rules and regulations established from time to time by Commission. Except for tenant occupied individually metered residential dwellings, the owner of any real property shall be responsible for paying the Sewer Service Charges and Industrial Waste Recovery Charges resulting from the use of occupancy of said property, in accordance with the rate schedules, rules and regulations established from time to time by Commission. 
	For tenant occupied individually metered residential dwellings, unless the owner agrees to become responsible, the tenant shall be responsible for subscribing to and paying for water service to such real property by Department in accordance with rate schedules and rules and regulations established from time to time by Commission. Said tenants further shall be responsible for paying the Sewer Service Charges and Industrial Waste Recovery Charges resulting from the use of occupancy of said property, in accordance with rate schedules, rules and regulations established from time to time by Commission. Said tenants shall be required to post a security deposit prior to establishing an account for water and sewer service in accordance with the rate schedules, rules and regulations established from time to time by Commission. 
	Nothing in this Section is intended to or shall prevent an arrangement, pursuant to rules and regulations established by Commission under which the subscription and/or payment for water service or Sewer Service Charge, or Industrial Cost Recovery Charges are made by customer, a tenant or tenants, or any owner, or agent on behalf of the owner; provided however, that any such arrangement shall not relieve owner of the obligation to Department, where water or Sewer Service Charges or Industrial Cost Recovery Charges are unpaid. Nothing in this Article is intended to impair the validity of any liens for delinquent water charges, Sewer Service Charges and Industrial Waste Recovery Charges which were recorded against tenant occupied individually metered residential dwellings prior to April 8, 1996. 
(Amended by Ord. 223-81, App. 5/4/81; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.3.  DEPARTMENT ENTITLED TO PAYMENT.
	The Department shall be entitled to payment for water service and sewer service within 15 days after the bill is mailed. Partial payments are to be deposited in each fund in proportion to the dollar amount of billing attributable to each fund. Should there be failure to make payment for water or sewer service rendered to any real property, water service to any such real property may be terminated in accordance with rules and regulations established from time to time by Commission until such service charges are paid. 
(Amended by Ord. 200-77, App. 6/8/77; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.4.  COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT SERVICE CHARGES THROUGH RECORDATION OF A LIEN.
	Whether or not water service is shut off for nonpayment of service charges, Manager shall initiate proceedings to make delinquent water and Sewer Service Charges and Industrial Cost Recovery Charges a lien against parcels of property to which said service was rendered pursuant to Sections 150.5 to 150.11 inclusive, of this Article. This section shall not apply to tenant occupied individually metered residential dwellings unless the owner of the property is the customer of record or consents to the imposition of a lien by the Department. 
(Amended by Ord. 200-77, App. 6/8/77; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.5.  LIEN PROCEEDINGS; ADDITIONAL REQUEST FOR PAYMENT; WARNING NOTICE.
	When water and sewer service has been rendered on a continuing account, and a bill has been presented to the customer and such bill remains unpaid until the succeeding billing cycle, Department shall mail a written request for payment to the customer, and to the owner when the customer is not the owner. In the case of accounts that have been closed without payment in full, the Department shall mail to the customer, and to the owner when the customer is not the owner, a written request for payment. The notice provisions of this section do not apply to the owners of tenant occupied individually metered residential properties unless the property owner is the customer of record. 
	The written request for payment shall include information as to the amount due and a warning notice that if the amount due is not paid within 15 days, water service on an open account may be terminated and proceedings to establish a lien against the real property to which the service was furnished will be instituted. The notice will further provide that if the account remains unpaid, administrative fees and interest, pursuant to this Article, will accrue. The form and content of said notice shall be approved by the Committee. 
(Amended by Ord. 200-77, App. 6/8/77; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.6.  LIEN PROCEEDINGS; REPORT AND NOTICE.
	If payment is not received within 15 days following mailing of the request, the account shall be deemed to be delinquent. Delinquent accounts which are to be subjected to the lien procedure shall be reported to Committee by Manager at least once each month. The Committee shall conduct a hearing pursuant to rules and regulations consistent with this Article and approved by the Commission. The report for each such delinquent account shall contain the owner's name, the amount due, and a description of each parcel to be subjected to the lien procedure. The descriptions of the parcels shall be those used for the same parcels on the assessor's map books for the current year. Upon receipt of such report, Committee shall fix a time, date and place for hearing the report and any protests or objections thereto, and shall cause notice of the hearing to be mailed to each owner of the parcels of real property described in the report not less than 10 days prior to the date of hearing. 
(Amended by Ord. 200-77, App. 6/8/77; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.7.  HEARING.
	At the time fixed for consideration of the report, the Committee shall hear it, along with any objections or evidence offered on behalf of the owners or their legal counsel regarding the real property liable to be assessed for delinquent accounts. The Committee may make such revisions, corrections or modifications to the report as it may deem necessary. In the event that the Committee is satisfied with the correctness of the report (as submitted or as revised, corrected or modified), it shall be confirmed. The decision of Committee on the report and on all protests or objections thereto shall be final and conclusive; provided, however, any delinquent account may be removed from the report by payment in full at any time prior to confirmation of the report. The Committee shall cause the confirmed report to be verified in a form sufficient to meet recording requirements. 
(Added by Ord. 62-75, App. 2/26/75; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.8.  CREATION OF LIEN.
	Upon confirmation of the report by the Committee, the delinquent charges contained therein shall constitute a lien against the property to which the services were rendered. 
	The lien shall continue until the lien value and all interest, fees and administrative costs due and payable thereon are paid. 
(Added by Ord. 62-75, App. 2/26/75; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.9.  RECORDATION; ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND INTEREST.
	The Committee shall cause the confirmed and verified report to be recorded in the County Recorder's office as soon as practicable. The lien on each parcel of property described in said report shall carry additional charges for administrative expenses of $50 or 10 percent of the amount owed, whichever is higher, together with interest at a rate of one percent per full month compounded monthly from the date of recordation of the lien on all charges due. Closed accounts for water and sewer service which are left unpaid shall be charged a late payment penalty fee in accordance with rate schedules, rules and regulations established from time to time by Commission. 
(Amended by Ord. 200-77, App. 6/8/77; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.10.  FILING OF LIEN WITH CONTROLLER AND TAX COLLECTOR; COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS BY THE BUREAU OF DELINQUENT REVENUE.
	If liens filed by Department are not paid during the fiscal year in which they were recorded, the Department shall annually transfer such liens to the Tax Collector, who shall add the amount of said liens to the current property tax bill for collection in the same manner as ordinary taxes of the City and County of San Francisco. Delinquent utility service liens recorded pursuant to this chapter shall have the force, effect and priority of a judgment lien. Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the priority status of water and sewer service liens recorded on properties prior to January 1, 1996. 
	If the Tax Collector so agrees, Manager may also file any other claims for overdue water and sewer service charges with the Tax Collector, regardless of whether such accounts have resulted in the imposition of a lien. The Bureau of Delinquent Revenue may take action as necessary under Administrative Code Section 10.39 to collect all delinquent accounts owed to Department that are filed with the Tax Collector. The Bureau of Delinquent Revenue may recover reasonable attorney's fees, collection fees, and other costs from debtors in prosecuting claims for money owed to Department. 
(Amended by Ord. 223-81, App. 5/4/81; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.11.  PAYMENT OF AMOUNT OWED; RELEASE OF LIEN; DISTRIBUTION OF PROCEEDS.
	Upon payment to Department of the lien amount, plus applicable administrative fees and interest charges, Department shall cause to be recorded a release of lien with the County Recorder and shall pay to the County Recorder the applicable recording fee. Upon payment to the Tax Collector of the lien amount, plus applicable administrative fees and interest charges, the Department shall cause to be recorded a release of lien with the County Recorder, and Department shall pay to the County Recorder the recording fee. 
	Except for the release of lien recording fee authorized in this Section and the fees and costs authorized by Section 150.10, all sums collected on behalf of Department by the Tax Collector or Bureau of Delinquent Revenue shall be deposited to the credit of the Water Department Operating Account, Sewer Service Revenue Fund, the Industrial Cost Recovery Revenue Fund, and Utility Tax Fund in proportion to the cost of services rendered attributable to each fund. 
(Amended by Ord. 200-77, App. 6/8/77; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.12.  WRITE-OFF OF UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNTS; COMPROMISE OR ABANDONMENT OF CLAIMS.
	The Committee shall have the authority to write off those delinquent accounts worth less than $200 and shall from time to time notify the Public Utilities Commission of any such action. The Bureau of Delinquent Revenue Collection may compromise or abandon claims reported to it by Department in accordance with Administrative Code Section 10.40 
(Amended by Ord. 200-77, App. 6/8/77; Ord. 243-99, File No. 991266, App. 9/22/99)
SEC. 150.13.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any part or provision of this Article, or application thereof, to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this Article, including the application of such part or provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect. To this end the provisions of this Article are severable. 
(Amended by Ord. 62-75, App. 2/26/75)
ARTICLE 5:
STREET FLOWER MARKETS
Sec. 155.Designation of LocationsProviso.Sec. 156.Authority to Issue Permits.Sec. 157.Application for Permit.Sec. 158.Investigation and InspectionRules and Regulations.Sec. 159.PermitPermit Fee.Sec. 160.No Other Fee or Peddler's License.Sec. 161.Conditions and Restrictions.Sec. 162.Suspension or Revocation of Permit.Sec. 163.Violation a Misdemeanor.Sec. 164.Severability.
SEC. 155.  DESIGNATION OF LOCATIONSPROVISO.
	Sidewalk flower-vending stands shall be located within the following designated street flower market areas upon the sidewalks of the City and County of San Francisco at the curb or building line. 
The Grant Avenue Street Flower Market 
	On the west sidewalk of Grant Avenue within 100 feet south of the southerly line of Geary Street. 
The Stockton Street Flower Market 
	On the west sidewalk of Stockton Street within 100 feet south of the southerly line of Geary Street. 
	On the east sidewalk of Stockton Street within 100 feet south of the southerly line of Geary Street. 
	On the west sidewalk of Stockton Street within 100 feet north of the northerly line of Ellis Street. 
	On the east sidewalk of Stockton Street within 100 feet north of the northerly line of O'Farrell Street. 
	On the north sidewalk of Post Street within 50 feet west of 250 Post Street. 
The Powell Street Flower Market 
	On the east sidewalk of Powell Street between 25 feet and 100 feet south of the southerly line of Geary Street. 
	On the west sidewalk of Powell Street within 100 feet north of the northerly line of Eddy Street. 
The Emporium Street Flower Market 
	On the south sidewalk of Market Street facing the location of 835 Market Street. 
The Post Street Flower Market 
	On the north side of Post Street, east of Powell Street within 200 feet east of the easterly property line of Powell Street. 
The Upper Market Street Flower Market 
	On the north sidewalk of Sixteenth Street within 100 feet south of the southerly line of Market Street. 
The Market Street Flower Market 
	On the south sidewalk of Market Street facing the location of 101 Market Street. 
	On the south sidewalk of Market Street facing the location of 215 Market Street. 
	On the east sidewalk of Montgomery Street, at Market Street, within 50 feet south of the north property line of Post Street. 
The Columbus Avenue and Powell Street Flower Market 
	On the northwestern end of Marini Park on Columbus Avenue and Powell Street. 
The Harvey Milk Plaza Flower Market 
	On the west sidewalk of Castro Street north of the main entrance to the Harvey Milk Plaza Muni Metro Station. 
(Amended by Ord. 17-82, App. 1/15/82; Ord. 356-85, App. 7/12/85; Ord. 433-86, App. 11/7/86; Ord. 492- 88, App. 11/8/88; Ord. 124-98, App. 4/2/98; Ord. 78-06, File No. 051985, App. 4/20/2006; Ord. 271-06, File No. 061293, App. 10/31/2006) 
SEC. 156.  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PERMITS.
	The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and empowered to issue permits for the maintenance of sidewalk flower-vending stands at the locations specified in Section 155 of this Article, subject to the proviso contained in said Section 155. In considering the issuance of sidewalk flower-vending stand permits and in prescribing the location of such stands within the areas set forth in Section 155 of this Article, the Director of Public Works shall give due regard to the conveniences and necessities of the owners, occupants or tenants of offices, stores or shops in the vicinity. 
SEC. 157.  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
	Each application for a sidewalk flower-vending permit shall state the name of the applicant therefor as well as the names of the individuals to be employed by or engaged with the applicant in displaying or selling flowers at said flower-vending stand. 
(Amended by Ord. 461-74, App. 10/3/74)
SEC. 158.  INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTIONRULES AND REGULATIONS.
	The Director of Public Works shall make all investigations and inspections necessary to the issuance of permits hereunder, and shall have the power and authority to adopt and enforce such rules and regulations necessary to the proper conduct of said flower-vending stands as shall be consistent with or in furtherance of the conditions and restrictions herein imposed. 
SEC. 159.  PERMITPERMIT FEE.
	No person, firm or corporation shall operate, maintain or conduct any sidewalk flower-vending stand in the City and County of San Francisco without first obtaining a permit to so do and paying the fees for said permit in accordance with the provisions of this Article. The fee for any such permit shall be $100 per quarter year, commencing on the first day of July, 1981, and in addition to said quarterly fee herein provided for, each permittee shall pay a quarterly fee of $30 for each employee employed in and about said sidewalk flower-vending stands. When any application for a permit for a sidewalk flower-vending permit shall be granted by the Director of Public Works, the same shall be delivered to the permittee only upon the payment of the first quarter's permit fee due thereon, and the payment of the same shall be endorsed on said permit, and said permittee shall thereafter pay quarterly, in advance, the permit fees herein provided for, and on the failure to so do, said permit may be revoked by the Director of Public Works. 
(Amended by Ord. 391-81, App. 7/3/81)
SEC. 160.  NO OTHER FEE OR PEDDLER'S LICENSE.
	The permit fees provided for in Section 159 of this Article shall be the only fees charged for the privilege of maintaining said sidewalk flower-vending stands or for displaying or selling flowers thereat. No peddler's license shall be required for such permittees or for any other person employed in and about the conduct of said sidewalk flower-vending stands. 
SEC. 161.  CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
	The issuance of permits and licenses and the maintenance of sidewalk flower-vending stands by the persons granted permits hereunder shall be subject to the following conditions and restrictions: 
	(a)	No permanent stands of any kind shall be erected on the sidewalks of said locations;
	(b)	The design and construction of all flower-vending stands placed at the locations designated in Section 155 of this Article and the maintenance of said stands shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works; provided, that no such flower-vending stand shall exceed the following dimensions, to-wit: 10 feet in length and three feet in width, and any person, firm or corporation having a permit to maintain and operate a flower-vending stand as provided in Sections 155 to 162 of this Article may maintain and operate a stand not exceeding 10 feet in length and three feet in width, provided that no part of the flower vender's display or activities may take place outside of an area that exceeds five feet in width and 20 feet in length; 
	(c)	No more than one flower-vending stand shall be granted a permit to operate at any one of the locations designated in Section 155; 
	(d)	No more than two persons shall at any given time be engaged or employed in displaying or selling flowers at any stand; provided, that for a substantial portion of time during the hours of operation of any stand, one of said persons engaged in displaying or selling flowers thereat shall be the person to whom the permit to operate said stand is issued; provided, however, that if the permit is issued to a firm or corporation, one of said persons engaged in displaying or selling flowers for a substantial portion of the time said stand is operated shall be an officer or partner of said firm or corporation; 
	(e)	Only cut flowers, evergreens, and corsages shall be displayed or sold at any stand, and no display, sale or orders for the sale or delivery of floral arrangements, potted plants, or shrubs shall be made, taken, received or solicited, at any stand, or by the owners or operators thereof; 
	(f)	No rubbish or cuttings shall be deposited in any public waste container;
	(g)	No flower stand shall be operated between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and the sidewalk and street surrounding each stand shall be kept free of rubbish, cuttings or debris resulting from the operation of the stand; 
	(h)	No permit shall be issued to any person unless he or she has been a resident of the City and County of San Francisco for a period of one year prior to his or her application for a permit hereunder; 
	(i)	No owner, landlord, lessee or occupant of any premises in the block occupied by a flower-vending stand as provided for herein, shall receive rent or any remuneration directly or indirectly for the space occupied by such flower-vending stand or its operation; 
	(j)	Each person operating a flower-vending stand under a permit as herein provided for, shall at all times carry and maintain at the permittee's own cost and expense a policy of liability insurance in the minimum amount of $500,000 single limit applying to bodily injuries, personal injuries and property damage. Said policy shall directly protect the City and County of San Francisco, its officers and employees and agents as named insureds, and shall provide that the insurance will operate as primary insurance and no other insurance effected by City will be called on to contribute to a loss covered by said policy. Said policy shall provide 30 days' notice of cancellation or material change to the Director of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco. Said policy shall be approved in writing by the Director of Public Works and the City Attorney of the City and County of San Francisco. A copy of policy and certificate shall be filed with the Director of Public Works. 
	In addition, the permittee shall agree to hold harmless and indemnify the City and County of San Francisco, its officers, agents and employees from any damage or injury caused by reason of the placement or maintenance of the flower-vending stand on the sidewalk, and the permittee shall be solely liable for any damage or loss, claims, injury and liability of every kind, nature and description directly or indirectly arising from said activity. Approval of insurance shall in no way relieve operator from liability under this hold-harmless clause. 
	(k)	There shall be no liability on the City or upon any of its officers, agents or employees for any damage sustained by the owner or operator of any flower-vending stand from any cause whatsoever, no matter whether said damage be caused by an officer, agent or employee of the City or by any other person; 
	(l)	An assignment or sale of a flower stand permit, without the approval of the Board of Supervisors, is prohibited; provided, however, that in the event of the death of a permittee, his or her permit shall be considered to be assigned to a living member of the deceased permittee's immediate family. Provided further, however, that such living member of a deceased permittee's immediate family must thereafter personally operate the flower- vending stand within six months from the date of the distribution of the proceeds of the deceased permittee's estate or, with the approval of the Board of Supervisors, sell the permit within said six-month period. 
	For the purposes of this Subparagraph (l), the term "immediate family" shall be limited to the children, grandchildren, spouse, co-habitant, parent, brother, sister, or child of a deceased brother or sister of a deceased permittee. 
	An individual shall be considered a "co-habitant" if he or she resided with the permittee, shared the common necessaries of life with the permittee, was not married to or related by marriage to the permittee, was the permittee's sole co-habitant, and is over 18 years of age. 
	An individual claiming a right to a permit as co-habitant under this Subparagraph (l) shall have resided with the permittee, and been a resident of the City and County of San Francisco, for a period of one year prior to the assignment or sale of said permit. 
(Amended by Ord. 448-76, App. 11/12/76; Ord. 226-87, App. 6/19/87)
SEC. 162.  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
	The operator of any flower-vending stand, licensed hereunder, who shall violate any of the restrictions and conditions set forth in Section 161 of this Article, or any rule or regulation of the Director of the Department of Public Works adopted in pursuance of the provisions of Section 158 of this Article, shall be subject to the suspension or revocation of his permit by said Director. 
SEC. 163.  VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
	Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this Article or any lawful rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 
SEC. 164.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Article or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Article or any portion thereof. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases, be declared unconstitutional, invalid, or ineffective. 
(Added by Ord. 448-76, App. 11/12/76)
ARTICLE 5.1:
ANTI-LITTER RECEPTACLES
Sec. 170.Garbage Receptacles.Sec. 170.1.Anti-Litter Receptacles Permits.Sec. 171.Decals on Receptacles.Sec. 172.Form of Application.Sec. 173.Placement and Maintenance of Litter Receptacles.Sec. 174.Nuisance.Sec. 174.1.Abatement.
SEC. 170.  GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.
	(a)	Garbage Receptacles Prohibited on Sidewalk, Street, or Any Public Right-of-Way. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 170.1 and 173, Chapter X, Part II, San Francisco Municipal Code (Public Works Code), no person, firm or corporation occupying or having charge or control of any premises shall place or cause to be placed, or suffer to remain, upon the sidewalk, street or any other dedicated public right-of-way, any can, container or receptacle used for the collection of garbage, refuse, ashes, cinder, sludge, offal, broken glass, crockery, tins, boxes, animal or vegetable matter, rubbish or other like matter, recycling, or green waste, except on the day the contents of said receptacle are to be collected by the licensed collector thereof or after the hour of 6:00 p.m. of the day immediately prior to the day of said collection. 
		(1)	Any person, firm, or corporation occupying or having charge of any commercial premises shall remove any such receptacle from the sidewalk, street, or other dedicated public right-of-way immediately after the contents of said receptacle have been collected or immediately upon opening said premises for business on the day of said collection. 
		(2)	Any person, firm, or corporation occupying or having charge of any residential premises shall remove any such receptacles from the sidewalk, street, or other dedicated public right-of-way within twenty-four (24) hours after placing said receptacles out for collection and after the contents of the said receptacle have been collected. 
		(3)	Said receptacles shall be returned to an enclosed area or other area that blocks views of the receptacles from the public right-of-way. Under no circumstances are said receptacles to be stored in plain sight of the public when viewed from any public right-of-way unless said receptacles have been placed out for collection. 
		(4)	In addition to the requirements set forth in this Section, the Director, after a public hearing, may adopt such orders, policies, regulations, rules, or standard plans and specifications as he or she deems necessary in order to preserve and maintain the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience. 
	(b)	The Director of Public Works, in issuing any written notice to abolish, abate and remove a nuisance under Article 5.1 of the Public Works Code, may direct any person, firm or corporation occupying or having charge of any commercial premises, to securely lock every can, container or receptacle placed for collection pursuant to Section 170(a) on any area open to the public, to prevent access to the contents thereof by any person other than the licensed refuse collector. Any such written notice shall be issued as set forth in Section 174.1. 
	(c)	Each violation of Subsection (a) shall constitute an infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $80.00 nor more than $100.00; for a second offense by a fine not less than $150.00 nor more than $200.00; and for each additional offense by a fine not less than $250.00 nor more than $500.00. In the alternative, an administrative penalty not to exceed $250.00 may be assessed for each violation. Such penalty shall be assessed, enforced and collected in accordance with Section 39-1 of the Police Code. 
(Added by Ord. 330-93, App. 10/11/93; amended by Ord. 388-94, App. 11/18/94; Ord. 197-98, App. 6/19/98; Ord. 227-99, File No. 990822, App. 8/13/99; Ord. 87-03, File No. 030482, App. 5/9/2003; Ord. 179-06, File No. 060083, App. 7/14/2006; Ord. 47-07, File No. 070020, App. 3/9/2007; Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011) 
SEC. 170.1.  ANTI-LITTER RECEPTACLES PERMITS.
	The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and empowered to issue permits for the placement and maintenance of anti-litter receptacles at locations in the financial and business districts of the City and County of San Francisco to be determined or approved by the Director. The receptacles and the placement thereof shall involve no cost to the City and County. 
	The provisions of this Section shall not be applicable to receptacles required to be placed and maintained pursuant to the provisions of Section 173 of this Article. 
(Amended by Ord. 32-78, App. 1/13/78; Ord. 330-93, App. 10/11/93)
SEC. 171.  DECALS ON RECEPTACLES.
	(a)	Sponsors of the placement of the receptacles shall be allowed to place decals on the receptacles bearing their names, providing that the decal shall be no larger than four inches by six inches overall and the size and design of the decal shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works. 
	(b)	Pursuant to Section 170(a), owners of garbage receptacles shall be allowed to prominently place decals on the receptacles bearing the scheduled collection dates and times, providing that the decal shall be no larger than 8 inches by 11 inches overall and the size and design of the decal shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works. 
(Added by Ord. 349-69, App. 12/3/69; amended by Ord. 330-93, App. 10/11/93)
SEC. 172.  FORM OF APPLICATION.
	The Director of Public Works shall prescribe the form of the application to be filed for the placement of the anti-litter receptacles and shall have the power and authority to adopt and enforce such rules and regulations with respect to the placement, maintenance and removal of such receptacles as are consistent with the provisions of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 349-69, App. 12/3/69)
SEC. 173.  PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF LITTER RECEPTACLES.
	(a)	It is the intent of this Section to ensure that public areas are kept clean and free from litter.
	(b)	Any person, firm or corporation operating a grocery store, a liquor store or an establishment selling food or beverages for consumption off the premises shall place and maintain a litter receptacle outside of each exit from said premises for the use of the patrons thereof during business hours; provided, however, that a person, firm, or corporation is not required under this Section to place and maintain a litter receptacle outside each exit if that person, firm, or corporation places and maintains a set of three containers for recyclables, compostables and trash for use by customers and visitors as specified in Chapter 19 of the Environment Code. 
	(c)	Any person, firm, corporation, or property owner operating a place of employment shall provide and maintain adjacent to the place of employment sufficient ashtrays or other receptacles for the disposal of cigarettes, cigars, and other similar combustible products used by employees and patrons who smoke. The Director of Public Works shall authorize the placement of such ashtrays or other receptacles in the public right-of-way where necessary. 
	(d)	The design, capacity, location, and number of ashtrays and receptacles shall be prescribed by the Director of Public Works. Decals may be placed upon said receptacles subject to the limitations set forth in Section 171 of this Article. 
	(e)	The receptacle shall be emptied when full and at the close of business each day and the contents thereof shall be stored or set out for collection in the same manner as other refuse generated in the operation of the business. Each receptacle shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. 
	(f)	Violation of this Section shall constitute an infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $80 nor more than $100; for a second offense by a fine not less than $150 nor more than $200; and for each additional offense by a fine not less than $250 nor more than $500. In the alternative, an administrative penalty not to exceed $250 may be assessed for each violation. Such penalty shall be assessed, enforced and collected in accordance with Section 39-1 of the Police Code. 
(Added by Ord. 32-78, App. 1/13/78; amended by Ord. 197-98, App. 6/19/98; Ord. 227-99, File No. 990822, App. 8/13/99; Ord. 87-03, File No. 030482, App. 5/9/2003; Ord. 100-09, File No. 081404, App. 6/23/2009) 
SEC. 174.  NUISANCE.
	No person, firm or corporation, including but not limited to any department, board or commission of the City and County, shall have or permit upon any public sidewalk, public stairway or other right-of-way for public pedestrian travel that abuts property owned or occupied such person, firm, or corporation, any nuisance detrimental to health or any accumulation of filth, garbage, decaying animal or vegetable matter, waste paper, hay, grass, straw, weeds, vegetation overgrowth, litter, trash, cigarette or cigar butts, unsanitary debris, waste material, animal or human excrement, or stains, marks or grime caused by oil and other wastes absorbed or compressed into the surface, or any other matter that constitutes a threat to public health and safety. For purposes of this Section, the owner and/or the occupant of the premises or unit nearest the public sidewalk, public stairway or other pedestrian right-of-way shall be held liable for the cleanliness of said public sidewalk, public stairway, or other pedestrian right-of-way that abuts the building. 
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; amended by Ord. 389-94, App. 11/18/94; Ord. 227-99, File No. 990822, App. 8/13/99)
SEC. 174.1.  ABATEMENT.
	(a)	It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to cause any person, firm or corporation, including but not limited to any department, board or commission of the City and County, that permits the accumulation of materials mentioned in Section 174 to be notified in writing to abolish, abate and remove such nuisances. The Director of Public Works may abate nuisances under this Section in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Community Preservation and Blight Reduction Act, Chapter 80 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, including, but not limited to, its provisions for notice, abatement, penalties, cost recovery, and debt collection against the parcel or parcels of land fronting the nuisance upon the sidewalk, driveway, curb or gutter.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; amended by Ord. 389-94, App. 11/18/94; Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.2.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; amended by Ord. 389-94, App. 11/18/94; Ord. 87-03, File No. 030482, App. 5/9/2003; Ord. 292-04, File No. 040561, App. 12/24/2004; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011) 
SEC. 174.3.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; amended by Ord. 389-94, App. 11/18/94; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.4.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; amended by Ord. 389-94, App. 11/18/94; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.5.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; amended by Ord. 389-94, App. 11/18/94; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.6.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.7.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.8.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.9.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.10.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.11.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.12.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 174.13.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 75-86, App. 3/14/86; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
ARTICLE 5.2:
TABLES AND CHAIRS IN PUBLIC SIDEWALK OR ROADWAY AREAS
Sec. 176.Caf Tables and ChairsPermit Required.Sec. 176.1.Authority to Issue Permits; Approved Guidelines.Sec. 176.2.Application for Permit.Sec. 176.3.Notice of Intent.Sec. 176.4.Issuance of Permit; Application for Variance.Sec. 176.5.Conditions and Restrictions.Sec. 176.6.Permit Not Deed or Easement; Suspension or Revocation of Permit.Sec. 176.6A.Enforcement Assistance by Department of Public Health.Sec. 176.7.Appeal of Protest or Denial of Permit.Sec. 176.8.Penalties; Other Remedies.Sec. 176.9.Removal of Tables and Chairs.
SEC. 176.  CAF TABLES AND CHAIRSPERMIT REQUIRED.
	No owner or operator of a business establishment shall occupy any portion of a public sidewalk, court, alley or street with tables and chairs without first obtaining a caf tables and chairs permit in accordance with the provisions of this Article. Any business owner or operator occupying any portion of a public sidewalk, court, alley or street with caf tables and chairs without a permit as required by this Article shall be subject to fines and penalties as provided in Sections 176.8 and 176.9 of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 236-93, App. 7/16/93)
SEC. 176.1.  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PERMITS; APPROVED GUIDELINES.
	The Director of Public Works or his or her designated representative is hereby authorized and empowered to issue caf tables and chairs permits, revocable at will, to owners or operators of business establishments for the placement of caf tables and chairs in the public sidewalk, court, alley or street adjacent to said business establishments, according to the procedures set forth in this Article. 
	The Director of Public Works shall approve and adopt guidelines for the design and placement of permitted caf tables and chairs. 
(Added by Ord. 263-93, App. 7/16/93)
SEC. 176.2.  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
	Every owner or operator of a business establishment desiring to place caf tables and chairs in a public sidewalk, court, alley or street shall first submit an application for a caf tables and chairs permit to the Department of Public Works. Each such application shall state the name of the applicant, the name and address of the establishment, the proposed area to be occupied by the tables and chairs and the hours and days that the area is to be so occupied, and shall be accompanied by a fully dimensioned space-use plan showing the locations, number and arrangement of tables and chairs, the size of caf tables and chairs to be used, the proposed size and locations of the pedestrian diverters planned to demarcate the occupied area, the location of the entrance to the establishment, the locations of fire exits or fire escapes, and the nature and location of any existing sidewalk obstructions. 
(Added by Ord. 236-93, App. 7/16/93)
SEC. 176.3.  NOTICE OF INTENT.
	Following the filing of the application for a caf tables and chairs permit, the permit applicant shall post a Notice of Intent to Place Caf Tables and Chairs on the business premises according to the requirements set forth in this Section. 
	Contents to Notice. The form for Notice of Intent to Place Caf Tables and Chairs shall be provided to each applicant by the Department of Public Works. Said notice shall include a description of the proposed caf tables and chairs and the procedure for obtaining any additional information and for filing any protest or opposition to the proposed caf tables and chairs. 
	Posting of Notice. The Notice of Intent to Place Caf Tables and Chairs shall be posted in a conspicuous location in a window or other readily visible location of the frontage of the applicant's business establishment for 10 calendar days. The notice shall be protected from the weather as necessary and shall be clearly visible from the public sidewalk, court, alley or street and not obstructed by awnings, landscaping or other impediments. 
(Added by Ord. 236-93, App. 7/16/93)
SEC. 176.4.  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
	If after 10 calendar days following posting of the Notice of Intent to Place Caf Tables and Chairs, the Department of Public Works has received no protest or opposition to the proposed caf tables and chairs and the proposed design and location of the caf tables and chairs, as described in the application, conforms to the guidelines set forth by the Director of Public Works, or if applicant receives a variance to the guidelines, the Director of Public Works shall issue a caf tables and chairs permit to the applicant. 
	No permit issued under the provisions of this Section shall become effective until the permit applicant has signed the permit and has delivered to the Department of Public Works proof of insurance to the limits required by Section 176.5 of this Article and has paid a street/sidewalk occupancy fee which shall be calculated by applying a rate of $3 per seat per month, but which shall be no less than $100 annually nor shall said fee exceed a maximum of $360 annually. 
	If the application submitted does not meet the guidelines established by the Director of Public Works for approved caf tables and chairs, the applicant may apply for special review and approval of the proposed caf tables and chairs permit. The Department of Public Works shall then submit the application to the Interdepartmental Staff Committee on Traffic and Transportation (ISCOTT) for special review. 
(Added by Ord. 236-93, App. 7/16/93)
SEC. 176.5.  CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
	The issuance of permits by the Director of Public Works and the maintenance of tables and chairs in front of business establishments by the permittees shall be subject to the guidelines set forth by the Director of Public Works and following conditions and restrictions: 
		(1)	Neither the City or County nor any of its officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any damages, claims or liability resulting to persons or property arising from the permittee's operation of the caf tables and chairs; 
		(2)	Each permittee shall, at his or her own expense, maintain in full force and effect an insurance policy or policies issued by an insurance company or companies satisfactory to the City's Controller and Risk Manager and written by an insurance company or companies having a policyholders surplus of at least $20,000,000. Said policy or policies shall afford liability insurance covering all operations, including but not limited to premises, products, personal injuries and automobiles and injury to property for single limit of not less than $1,000,000 applying to bodily injuries, personal injuries and property damage or a combination of such injuries. Said policy or policies shall include the City and County of San Francisco and its officers and employees jointly and severally as additional insureds and shall apply as primary insurance and shall stipulate that no other insurance effected by the City and County of San Francisco will be called on to contribute to a loss covered hereunder. Said policy or policies shall provide 30 days' notice to Controller, City and County of San Francisco, Room 109, City Hall, if the policy or policies should be canceled or materially changed; 
		(3)	An assignment or sale of a permit issued under this Article is prohibited.
(Added by Ord. 236-93, App. 7/16/93)
SEC. 176.6.  PERMIT NOT DEED OR EASEMENT; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
	Permission to encroach upon a portion of a public sidewalk or roadway with caf tables and chairs granted under this Article shall not constitute a deed or grant of an easement by the City and County and shall be subject to the suspension or revocation by the Director of Public Works when the permittee violates any of the restrictions and conditions set forth in Section 176.5 of this Article, or any rule or regulation of the Director of the Department of Public Works adopted in pursuance of the provisions of this Article. Said permission shall be automatically terminated upon the termination of the insurance stipulated under Section 176.5 of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 236-93, App. 7/16/93)
SEC. 176.6A.  ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
	In addition to the Director of the Department of Public Works, the Director of the Department of Public Health may determine when a permittee violates any of the restrictions and conditions set forth in Section 176.5 of this Article, or any rule or regulation of the Director of the Department of Public Works adopted in pursuance of the provisions of this Article. When the Director of the Department of Public Health makes such a determination, he or she shall forward such determination to the Department of Public Works for appropriate action. 
(Added by Ord. 160-98, App. 5/15/98)
SEC. 176.7.  APPEAL OF PROTEST OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
	Any person or persons who deem their interests or property or that of the general public will be adversely affected by the occupancy of a public sidewalk, court, alley or street with caf tables and chairs for which permission has been applied for under the provisions of this Article, may protest the issuance of said caf tables and chairs permit by writing to the Director of Public Works within 10 calendar days from the date of posting of the Notice of Intent to Place Caf Tables and Chairs as required under Section 176.3 of this Article. Upon receipt of any such written protest, the Director of Public Works will schedule a public hearing to hear all protests or oppositions to the issuance of the caf tables and chairs permit. 
	Upon denial of a permit by the Director of Public Works, an applicant may, within 15 calendar days following notification of such denial, file a notice of appeal to the Board of Permit Appeals, who shall then hear all appeals concerning the application for permit. 
(Added by Ord. 236-93, App. 7/16/93)
SEC. 176.8.  PENALTIES; OTHER REMEDIES.
	(a)	The placement of tables and chairs on a public sidewalk or other public right-of-way without a permit in compliance with Sections 176 through 176.4 of this Article shall constitute an infraction punishable by a fine of $100. The nonpayment of such fine, or the continued existence of a condition in violation of this Article, shall be grounds for the Director of Public Works to prohibit placement of tables and chairs by the responsible owner or operator of the fronting business establishment until such penalty has been paid or the condition corrected. 
(Added by Ord. 236-93, App. 7/16/93)
SEC. 176.9.  REMOVAL OF TABLES AND CHAIRS.
	Any tables and chairs placed in public sidewalk or roadway areas without a validly issued permit may be seized and removed pursuant to this Section. Before any tables and chairs are seized, the owner or operator of the business establishment fronting on the sidewalk from which the tables and chairs are to be removed shall be notified and given 10 business days in which to remedy the violation. If the responsible party does not remedy the violation and apply for and obtain a caf tables and chairs permit within the time prescribed, the City may seize and remove the tables and chairs. 
	Any other provisions of this Article notwithstanding, if any caf tables and chairs are placed in public sidewalk or roadway areas in such a place or manner as to pose an immediate and serious danger to persons or property, the City may seize such tables and chairs without prior notice to the person responsible for such tables and chairs if it is impractical to remedy the danger by moving the tables and chairs to another point on the sidewalk or public right-of-way. The responsible party shall be notified promptly of such seizure and shall have the right to request an informal hearing before a designated City official within 10 business days after such notification to determine whether the seizure was proper. Any tables and chairs seized pursuant to this Section shall be retained by the City and may be recovered as provided herein. 
	Seized caf tables and chairs shall be retained by the City and County and may be recovered by the responsible party for a period of at least 10 business days following seizure. 
	As a condition of recovering any caf tables and chairs properly seized pursuant to this Section, the person responsible for such caf tables and chairs shall pay an impound fee covering the actual cost to the City of transporting and storing such caf tables and chairs. 
(Added by Ord. 236-93, App. 7/16/93)
ARTICLE 5.3:
DISPLAY OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES OR NONFOOD MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS
Sec. 183.Authority to Issue Permits. Sec. 183-1.Application for Permits; Notice of Intent to Display Merchandise. Sec. 183-2.Investigation and Inspection   Rules and Regulations. Sec. 183-3.Permit: Application, Public Hearing, Fees, Term, Display of Permit. Sec. 183-4.Conditions and Restrictions. Sec. 183-5.Penalties; Investigation Fees: Display Stands without or in Violation of a Valid Permit; Appeals. Sec. 183-6.Appeal of Director's Decision. Sec. 183-7.Removal of Display Stands.
SEC. 183.  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PERMITS.
	(a)	The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and empowered to issue revocable permits for the placement of display stands used for the purpose of displaying fruits, vegetables, living plants, cut flowers and nonfood merchandise in any area in public sidewalk areas contiguous to business establishments in locations wherein retail commercial activity is permitted under the Planning Code except for those areas designated C-3 pursuant to Section 210.3 of the Planning Code. 
	(b)	In determining the issuance of permits pursuant to Subsection (a) above, the Director of Public Works shall consider the convenience and necessity of pedestrians, property owners, occupants, tenants, or of offices, stores, or shops in the vicinity, the dimensions of the public sidewalk areas, the location of nearby fire hydrants, bus shelters and stops, newspaper racks and similar factors, and shall further consider the commercial or residential character of the neighborhood and the impact of the proposed display on adjacent residential properties. The Director of Public Works shall forward all applications for the sidewalk display of fruits and vegetables to the Department of Public Health for its review and comments prior to the issuance of permits and shall forward all applications for the sidewalk display of nonfood merchandise to the Police Department for its review and comments prior to the issuance of permits. 
(Added by Ord. 523-83, App. 11/4/83; amended by Ord. 372-93, App. 11/23/93)
SEC. 183-1.  APPLICATION FOR PERMITS; NOTICE OF INTENT TO DISPLAY MERCHANDISE.
	(a)	Each application for a permit to place displays of fruits and vegetables or nonfood merchandise adjacent to a business establishment and each application to amend a permit previously issued hereunder shall state the name and address of the applicant and business nature of the establishment, a physical description of the sidewalk and of the portion of the sidewalk proposed to be occupied, the general category of items to be displayed, and a description of the display stand, including size and building materials used or to be used. 
	(b)	The Department of Public Works shall provide a form entitled "Notice of Intent to Display Merchandise" to each applicant. It shall include the applicant's name, a brief description of the merchandise to be displayed and the proposed display stand configuration. It shall also include the following provision: "A public hearing by the Director of Public Works on the issuance of the permit will be held only if written objections are submitted to the Director of Public Works within 10 calendar days of the date the Notice of Intent to Display Merchandise was posted." The Notice of Intent shall be posted in a conspicuous location in a window or other readily visible location on the frontage of the applicant's business establishment for 10 calendar days. It shall be clearly visible from the public sidewalk, alley, or street and not obstructed by awnings, landscaping or other impediments to visibility. 
(Added by Ord. 523-83, App. 11/4/83; amended by Ord. 372-93, App. 11/23/93)
SEC. 183-2.  INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION-RULES AND REGULATIONS.
	The Director of Public Works or his/her designee shall make all investigations and inspections necessary to the issuance of permits and shall have the power and authority to adopt and enforce such rules and regulations necessary for the protection of the public interest. 
(Added by Ord. 523-83, App. 11/4/83; amended by Ord. 372-93, App. 11/23/93)
SEC. 183-3.  PERMIT: APPLICATION, PUBLIC HEARING, FEES, TERM, DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
	(a)	No owner or operator of a business establishment shall occupy any portion of a public sidewalk with stands for the display of fruits and vegetables or nonfood merchandise without first obtaining a permit to do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 183-1 of this Article. The permit application shall be on a form provided by the Department of Public Works, which form shall include the following provision: "The applicant hereby affirms that the applicant is not prohibited by any lease or rental agreement from locating a display on the sidewalk adjacent to applicant's place of business." Each application for a permit or an amendment to a permit shall be signed under penalty of perjury and must be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount of $100 payable to the Department of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco. In addition, a permit fee of a minimum of $4.80 for each square foot of sidewalk to be occupied by display stands authorized by the permit shall be collected from each applicant by the Department of Public Works at the time the permit is issued. 
	(b)	No later than 21 days after the 10 calendar day display period has expired, the Director of Public Works or his/her designee shall hold a public hearing on issuance of permits for which written objections have been timely received. At least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing, notice of said hearing shall be mailed to the applicant and all persons who have submitted written objections to the Director of Public Works. In the event that written objections are submitted by standardized or duplicate forms, one person submitting such objections shall be designated by the written objection to receive notice of the public hearing. Such notice shall clearly state the date, time, place and purpose of the hearing. Upon receipt, the applicant shall post a true and correct copy of said notice in a conspicuous location in a window or other readily visible location on the frontage of the applicant's business establishment. It shall be clearly visible from the public sidewalk, alley, or street and not obstructed by awnings, landscaping or other impediments to visibility. 
	During such hearing or hearings, any interested person shall have an opportunity to be heard, subject to any rules of procedure adopted by the Director of Public Works. 
	(c)	Within 15 days of the completion of the hearing or hearings, the Director of Public Works shall issue a written decision as to whether the permit shall be issued and what conditions, if any, in addition to those provided for in this Section shall be imposed. Said decision shall be mailed to the applicant. 
	(d)	A permit issued pursuant hereto shall remain valid until revoked, until such time as the applicant no longer owns or operates said business establishment, until the time period for which the permit shall remain valid, as determined by the Director of Public Works, has expired, or until one year from the date the permit was issued, whichever occurs earlier. Said permit shall be displayed in a conspicuous location in a window or other readily visible location on the frontage of the applicant's business establishment. It shall be clearly visible from the public sidewalk, alley, or street and not obstructed by awnings, landscaping or other impediments to visibility. 
(Added by Ord. 523-83, App. 11/4/83; amended by Ord. 372-93, App. 11/23/93)
SEC. 183-4.  CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
	The issuance of permits and the maintenance of stands for display of fruits and vegetables or nonfood merchandise in front of business establishments by the permittee shall be subject to the following conditions and restrictions as well as such other conditions and restrictions as may be imposed by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee: 
	(a)	Stands for the display of fruits and vegetables or nonfood merchandise shall be confined to an area approved by the Director of Public Works. 
	(b)	The fruits and vegetables or nonfood merchandise displayed on the sidewalk shall be the same as displayed for sale on the premises in the business operated by the permittee. 
	(c)	Fruits, vegetables or nonfood merchandise shall be displayed on a stand approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. 
	(d)	The display stands permitted by this Section shall be a minimum of 2 feet and a maximum of six feet above the sidewalk, and shall extend into the sidewalk no more than 24 inches or 25 percent of the width, whichever is less, from the front of the building. All display stands shall meet the guidelines established by the Director of Public Works for compliance with the disability access standards of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Part II of Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations. 
	(e)	All fruits and vegetables shall be protected by an awning.
	(f)	All display stands shall be promptly removed from the sidewalk at the end of each business day.
	(g)	The permittee shall maintain the sidewalk in a clean condition at all times.
	(h)	The permittee shall keep the sidewalk area not occupied by the display stand free of obstructions at all times.
	(i)	There shall be no liability on the City or upon any of its officers, agents or employees for any damage sustained by the permittee from any cause arising out of permitted activities. Furthermore, the permittee shall agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City and County, its officers and employees from any liability arising out of permitted activities. 
	(j)	Each permittee shall, at his own expense, maintain in full force and effect an insurance policy or policies issued by an insurance company or companies satisfactory to the City's Controller and Director of Public Works. Policy or policies shall afford liability insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000 covering all operations, including, but not limited to, premises, products, personal injuries and property damage or a combination of such injuries. Said policy or policies shall include the City and County of San Francisco and its officers and employees jointly and severally as additional insureds and shall apply as primary insurance and shall stipulate that no other insurance effected by the City and County of San Francisco will be called on to contribute to a loss covered hereunder. Said policy or policies shall provide 30 days notice to Controller, City and County of San Francisco, Room 109, City Hall, and the Director of Public Works, Room 260, City Hall, if the policy or policies should be canceled or materially changed. 
	(k)	Any assignment or sale of a permit issued under this Article is prohibited.
	(l)	Sidewalk areas shall not be painted, landscaped or altered in any way without prior written approval of the Department of Public Works. 
	(m)	A permit issued under this Article does not constitute a deed or grant of an easement by the City and is revocable at any time at the will of the Director of Public Works or the Board of Supervisors. 
(Added by Ord. 523-83, 11/4/83; amended by Ord. 372-93, App. 11/23/93)
SEC. 183-5.  PENALTIES; INVESTIGATION FEES: DISPLAY STANDS WITHOUT OR IN VIOLATION OF A VALID PERMIT; APPEALS.
	(a)	Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be guilty of an infraction. Every violation determined to be an infraction is punishable by (1) a fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation; (2) a fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year; (3) a fine not exceeding $500 and revocation of the permittee's license issued pursuant to Section 183-2 of this Article for a third violation within one year. 
	In addition, fines may be imposed by the Department of Public Works for investigation of display stands being maintained without or in violation of a valid permit. The Director of Public Works shall establish a schedule of such fees. Payment of the fees shall be directly to the Department of Public Works. 
	The person responsible for payment of the fee may appeal the amount of the investigation fee to the Board of Permit Appeals, subject to its filing fees and rules. 
	(b)	The nonpayment of such fee or fine, or the continued existence of a condition in violation of this Section, shall be grounds for the Director of Public Works to deny a permit for display stands to the responsible owner or applicant until such penalty has been paid and the condition corrected. 
(Added by Ord. 523-83, App. 11/4/83; amended by Ord. 205-87, App. 6/3/87; Ord. 372-93, App. 11/23/93)
SEC. 183-6.  APPEAL OF DIRECTOR'S DECISION.
	Any decision on an application for a permit pursuant to this Section, may be appealed to the Board of Permit Appeals within 15 days of the issuance of a decision by the Director of Public Works. 
(Added by Ord. 523-83, App. 11/4/83; amended by Ord. 372-93, App. 11/23/93)
SEC. 183-7.  REMOVAL OF DISPLAY STANDS.
	Any display stands placed in the public sidewalk without a validly issued permit may be seized and removed pursuant to this Section. Before any display stands are seized, the owner or operator of the business establishment fronting on the sidewalk from which the display stands are to be removed shall be given 10 business days in which to apply for a valid permit. If the responsible party does not make a good faith effort to submit a permit application pursuant to Section 183-2 herein within the time prescribed, the display stands may be seized and removed from their sidewalk location by the City. 
	Seized display stands shall be retained by the City and County and may be recovered by the responsible person for a period of at least 10 business days following seizure. As a condition of recovering any display stands seized pursuant to this Section, the person responsible for such display stands shall pay an impound fee equal to the actual cost to the City of transporting and storing such display stands. 
(Added by Ord. 372-93, App. 11/23/93)
ARTICLE 5.4:
REGULATION OF NEWSRACKS
Sec. 184.Purpose and Intent.Sec. 184.1.Definitions.Sec. 184.2.Newsrack Certificate.Sec. 184.3.Newsrack Identification.Sec. 184.4.Newsracks Prohibited.Sec. 184.5.Maintenance and Display Standards.Sec. 184.6.Correction of Violations; Hearing.Sec. 184.7.Reserved.Sec. 184.8.Administrative Fines; Other Remedies.Sec. 184.9.Insurance.Sec. 184.10.Indemnification.Sec. 184.11.Severability.Sec. 184.12.Fixed Pedestal Newsracks.
SEC. 184.  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
	The Board of Supervisors hereby finds that newsracks placed and maintained on the streets, sidewalks, or other public rights-of-way, absent some reasonable regulation, may unreasonably interfere with the use of such streets, sidewalks, and public rights-of-way, and may present hazards to persons or property. 
	The Board of Supervisors further finds that streets, sidewalks and public rights-of-way are historically associated with the sale and distribution of newspapers and other publications, and that access to and use of these areas for such purposes is not to be denied except where such use unreasonably interferes with the use of these areas by pedestrians or traffic, or where such use presents a hazard to persons or property. 
	The Board of Supervisors therefore has determined that a reasonable accommodation of these competing interests can be achieved by adoption of this Article, which regulates the placement and maintenance of newsracks. 
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85)
SEC. 184.1.  DEFINITIONS.
	(a)	"Newsrack" is any self-service or coin-operated box, container, storage unit, or other dispenser installed, used, or maintained for the display and sale or distribution without charge of newspapers, periodicals or other publications. 
	(b)	"City" is the City and County of San Francisco.
	(c)	"Person" is an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, excepting the United States of America, the State of California, or any political subdivision thereof. 
	(d)	"Director of Public Works" is the City's Director of Public Works or his or her designated representative.
	(e)	"General Manager of MUNI" is the General Manager of the City's Municipal Railway or his or her designated representative.
	(f)	"Abandoned newsrack" is any newsrack which remains empty for 10 business days, except that a newsrack remaining empty due to labor strike or any temporary and extraordinary interruption of distribution or publication by the newspaper or other publication sold or distributed from that newsrack shall not be deemed abandoned. 
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85)
SEC. 184.2.  NEWSRACK CERTIFICATE.
	Prior to the installation of any newsrack on any public street, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way, the person responsible for such installation and for the maintenance of such newsrack shall submit a newsrack certificate to the Director of Public Works. Any person may establish a single, master newsrack certificate covering all of such person's newsracks within the City. The newsrack certificate shall state the name, address and telephone number of the person responsible for installation and maintenance of the newsrack(s) covered by such certificate and set forth such person's agreement to indemnify and hold harmless the City pursuant to Section 184.10 of this Article. The newsrack certificate must also state an electronic mail address for the person responsible for installation and maintenance of the newsrack(s) covered by such certificate. The Director of Public Works may use that electronic mail address to provide official notice to the person pursuant to this Article, including notices of violations, either as an alternative to or in addition to providing such notice by regular mail. Within 10 business days from the date the newsrack certificate is submitted, the person responsible for such installation and for maintenance of such newsrack shall submit a separate certificate evidencing the insurance required to be carried under Section 184.9 of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85; Ord. 319-10, File No. 101310, App. 12/21/2010)
SEC. 184.3.  NEWSRACK IDENTIFICATION.
	Every person, either for himself or herself or any other person, who places or maintains or who causes to be placed or maintained a newsrack on any street, sidewalk or public right-of-way shall have his or her name, address and telephone number permanently affixed to the newsrack in a place where such information will be readily visible. 
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85)
SEC. 184.4.  NEWSRACKS PROHIBITED.
	(a)	No person shall place, use or maintain any newsrack which in whole or in part rests upon, in or over any portion of any street or other public right-of-way on which motor vehicles are lawfully permitted. 
	(b)	No person shall place, use or maintain any newsrack which in whole or in part rests upon, in or over any street, sidewalk or other public right-of-way, when such placement, use or maintenance endangers the safety of persons or property, or unreasonably interferes with public utility purposes, public transportation purposes or other government use, or when such newsrack unreasonably interferes with or impedes the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, the ingress into or egress from any residence, place of business, or any legally parked or stopped vehicles, the use of poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, police or fire call boxes, transit shelters, sidewalk elevators, mailboxes, or other objects permitted at or near said location, or access to or use of delivery areas or loading zones. 
	(c)	No person shall place, use or maintain any newsrack within five feet of any fire hydrant or any transit shelter installed by or for the San Francisco Municipal Railway ("MUNI") (except for newsracks placed inside or affixed to any such transit shelter with MUNI's consent), nor shall any person place, use or maintain any newsrack in any location where such newsrack leaves less than five feet of clear space for pedestrian passage. 
	(d)	No person shall place, use or maintain any newsrack closer than seven feet from the curb within the first 30 feet of any MUNI stopping zone (as measured from the front of the yellow MUNI stop bar on the street, if there is one, or if there is not, from the beginning of the white box zone painted on the street). In the remaining portion of any MUNI stopping zone, no person shall place, use or maintain any newsrack closer than five feet from the curb, except that in the last 15 feet of any MUNI stopping zone, newsracks may be placed so that no edge is closer than two feet from the curb. 
	(e)	The Director of Public Works shall appoint an advisory committee of newspaper distributors and concerned citizens to recommend such guidelines as may be necessary for interpreting and enforcing Section 184.4(b). Upon adoption of such guidelines by the Director of Public Works, copies of the guidelines shall be kept on file at the Director of Public Works and shall be made available to any person upon request. 
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85)
SEC. 184.5.  MAINTENANCE AND DISPLAY STANDARDS.
	(a)	Every newsrack shall be maintained in good repair and working order. Newsracks that have been damaged or stolen shall be replaced or repaired as soon as is practical, unless the person responsible for the newsrack wishes to abandon the location, in which event such person shall promptly remove the newsrack and repair any damage to public property caused by the installation or removal of such newsracks. 
	(b)	All coin-operated newsracks shall be equipped with a coin-return device maintained in good repair and working order.
	(c)	All newsracks and the newspapers or other publications sold therefrom shall be maintained and displayed in accordance with all applicable law, including (without limitation) Article 10.1 of Part II, Chapter VIII of the San Francisco Municipal Code (Police Code). 
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85)
SEC. 184.6.  CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS; HEARING.
	(a)	Any newsrack installed or maintained in violation of this Article may be seized and removed pursuant to Section 184.6. Seizure and removal of newsracks in violation of Sections 184.4 or 184.5 may take place only if it is impractical to remedy the violation by moving the newsrack to another point on the street, sidewalk or other public right-of-way without mechanical assistance. Before any newsrack is seized, the person responsible for its installation and maintenance shall be notified and given 10 business days in which to remedy the violation or to request a hearing to contest the seizure in the manner provided in Section 184.6(b), or 7 calendar days if the person is notified of the violation by electronic mail. Notice to the party responsible for the newsrack shall be given by written notice sent to the address for such party stated on the newsrack certificate filed pursuant to Section 184.2 of this Article or, at the election of the Director, by electronic mail notice sent to the electronic mail address for such party stated on the newsrack certificate, and an additional notice tag shall be affixed to the newsrack on the date of notice. The latter notice shall be sufficient if no identification is shown on the newsrack and no newsrack certificate has been filed. Both the notice sent to the address or electronic mail address stated on the newsrack certificate and the additional notice tag affixed to the newsrack shall state the place to request a hearing to contest the seizure, as provided in Section 184.6(b). 
	(b)	Any person notified under Section 184.6(a) may request a hearing before a designated City official (the "Hearing Officer") in the manner set forth below. The Hearing Officer shall be the Director of Public Works unless the newsrack allegedly installed or maintained in violation of this Article is located within any MUNI stopping zone, in which case the Hearing Officer shall be the General Manager of MUNI. The person notified under Section 184.6(a) may request a hearing by making a request to the office of the Director of Public Works (if the Hearing Officer is the Director of Public Works) or, if the Hearing Officer is the General Manager of MUNI, then by making a request to the office of the General Manager of MUNI. The hearing shall be held not less than 10 business days after the request was made by the party notified under Section 184.6(a). The hearing shall be informal, but oral and written evidence may be given by both sides. Any action by the City with respect to the alleged violation shall be stayed pending the Hearing Officer's decision following the hearing, which decision shall be rendered no later than 10 business days after the hearing. The Hearing Officer may give oral notice of the decision at the close of the hearing, but shall give written notice as well of all decisions. 
	(c)	The City may seize and remove a newsrack if the person responsible for such newsrack (i) has neither requested a hearing before the Hearing Officer nor remedied the violation within 10 business days following date of notice, or within 7 calendar days if the notice was given by electronic mail, or (ii) has failed to remedy the violation within 10 business days after receiving a copy of the written decision that the newsrack was installed or maintained in violation of this Article, or within 7 calendar days if the written decision was sent to the person by electronic mail, following a hearing conducted pursuant to Section 184.6(b). Such person shall be notified of the seizure. Seized newsracks shall be retained by the City and may be recovered by the responsible party for a period of at least 10 business days following seizure. 
	(d)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 184.6(a) through (c), if a newsrack is installed or maintained in such a place or manner as to pose an immediate and serious danger to persons or property, the City may seize such newsrack without prior notice to the person responsible for such newsrack if it is impractical to remedy the danger by one person moving the newsrack to another point on the street, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way without mechanical assistance. The person responsible for such newsrack shall be notified promptly after such seizure has occurred, and shall have the right to request an informal hearing before the Director of Public Works (or, if the seized newsrack had been located within any MUNI stopping zone in violation of Section 184.4(d), then before the General Manager of MUNI) within 10 business days after receiving such notice to determine whether the seizure was proper, or within 7 calendar days if the notice was sent by electronic mail. Any newsrack seized pursuant to this Section shall be retained by the City and may be recovered by the person responsible for such newsrack as provided in Section 184.6(c). 
	(e)	Abandoend newsracks may be removed by a public officer, employee, contractor, or other authorized representative of the City (and may be disposed of if not claimed by the person responsible for that newsrack within 10 business days, or within 7 calendar days if notice is given by electronic mail. The above notwithstanding, at least 10 business days before any newsrack is removed under this subsection, or at least 7 calendar days if notice is given by electronic mail, the person responsible for its installation or maintenance shall be given written notice pursuant to this Section that such newsrack is suspected of being abandoned. Such newsrack shall not be removed if, before removal, the party responsible for its installation or maintenance informs the Director of Public Works that the newsrack has not been abandoned and promptly stocks and maintains the subject newsrack. In addition, upon removal of any abandoned newsrack, the person responsible for its installation or maintenance shall promptly be notified and given 10 business days in which to request an informal hearing before the Director of Public Works (or, if the newsrack had been located within any MUNI stopping zone in violation of Section 194.4(d), then before the General Manager of MUNI) to contest the removal under this subsection. 
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85; Ord. 319-10, File No. 101310, App. 12/21/2010)
SEC. 184.7.  RESERVED.
SEC. 184.8.  ADMINISTRATIVE FINES; OTHER REMEDIES.
	(a)	Any other provisions of this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, as a condition of recovering any newsrack properly seized pursuant to the terms of Section 184.6 of this Article, the person responsible for such newsrack shall pay an impound fee covering the actual cost to the City of transporting and storing such newsrack. 
	(b)	Violation of this Article or any regulation issued under this Article shall constitute an infraction.
	(c)	In addition to any other remedies that may be available, if a violation of this Article or any regulation issued under this Article results in the proper seizure of a newsrack pursuant to Section 184.6, the violation shall be punishable by an administrative fine. The Director is hereby authorized to issue an administrative citation to the person responsible for any such violation. Administrative Code Chapter 100, "Procedures Governing the Imposition of Administrative Fines," as may be amended from time to time, is hereby incorporated and shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection, and review of administrative citations issued by the Director to enforce this Article or any regulation issued under this Article, except that the amount of the fine shall be $50 for a first violation, $100 for a second violation within one year of the date of the first violation, and $250 for each additional violation within one year of the date of a second or subsequent violation. Revenue from fines imposed under this Section may only be used to cover the costs of administering and enforcing this Article and regulations issued under this Article. 
	(d)	The provisions of this Section shall not limit any other remedies authorized by law.
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85; Ord. 319-10, File No. 101310, App. 12/21/2010)
SEC. 184.9.  INSURANCE.
	Each person installing or maintaining a newsrack under this Article shall furnish to the City a certificate showing that such person has then in force a policy or policies of public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City as an additional insured, in an amount not less than $100,000 minimum liability combined single limit (bodily injury and property damage) per person and per occurrence. Each such person shall provide and keep in force such policy or policies of public liability insurance during such time as he or she continues to place or maintain any newsrack under the terms of this Article. The evidence of insurance filed with the City shall include a statement by the insurance carrier that such carrier will give the City 30 days' notice before cancelling such insurance. 
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85)
SEC. 184.10.  INDEMNIFICATION.
	Any person installing or maintaining a newsrack under this Article shall further be required to execute an agreement with the City that he or she agrees to indemnify and to hold harmless the City and its representatives from all claims, demands or liability arising out of or encountered in connection with the installation or maintenance of any newsrack on public property by or on behalf of such person, except only such injury or harm as may be caused solely and exclusively by the negligence of the City or its authorized representatives. This indemnification shall extend only to actions filed within the applicable period for filing actions under California law. 
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85)
SEC. 184.11.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any provision or clause of this Article or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such clause or provision and the remainder of this Article shall remain effective and enforceable to the fullest extent allowed by law, and all clauses and provisions of this Article are hereby declared to be severable. 
(Added by Ord. 359-85, App. 7/24/85)
SEC. 184.12.  FIXED PEDESTAL NEWSRACKS.
	(a)	PURPOSE AND INTENT. The Board of Supervisors hereby finds and declares: 
		(1)	The City and County of San Francisco has a substantial interest in promoting the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of its citizens and visitors by ensuring that public streets, public sidewalks and public rights-of-way are not unreasonably obstructed by newsracks, and that newsracks are properly maintained. 
		(2)	In recent years, the proliferation of newsracks on City streets, and particularly poorly maintained or abandoned freestanding newsracks, have contributed to the congestion of public sidewalks, impeded the flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, interfered with the use of streets, public sidewalks and public rights-of-way, presented hazards to persons and property, contributed to the litter problems of public sidewalks, and resulted in visual blight. 
		(3)	The City and County of San Francisco has a substantial interest in preserving and protecting its unique visual and aesthetic qualities identified in Sections I.5.24 through I.5.25, I.5.32 through I.5.33, and II.4.2 of the San Francisco General Plan. To that end, and consistent with the Downtown Area Plan of the General Plan ( II.1.48 through II.1.50), the City must take steps to reduce the visual blight, the inconvenience and the hazards associated with unlimited numbers and designs of newsracks, poorly maintained newsracks and the virtually unrestricted placement of newsracks on public streets, public sidewalks and public rights-of-way. 
		(4)	A six-month pilot program employing fixed pedestal newsracks at various locations the City has shown that an effective way to reduce the visual clutter and hazards associated with excessive numbers of newsracks is to prohibit freestanding newsracks in congested areas, and to allow only fixed pedestal newsracks in these areas. 
		(5)	The purpose of this section is to promote the public health, safety and welfare and the aesthetic qualities of the City by controlling the placement, size, construction and appearance of newsracks and fixed pedestal units so as to accomplish the following, to the extent reasonably possible in compliance with this section and the guidelines: 
			(A)	Provide for pedestrian and vehicular safety and convenience;
			(B)	Ensure that there is no unreasonable interference with the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic including ingress into, or egress from, any residence, place of business or public facility, or any legally parked or stopped vehicles; 
			(C)	Ensure compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act and improve passage for persons with disabilities by reducing impediments to passage caused by poorly located newsracks; 
			(D)	Provide reasonable access for the safe and efficient use and maintenance of sidewalks, poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes, police or fire call boxes, sidewalk elevators, delivery areas, loading zones, transit shelters, curb ramps, parking meters, and locations used for public transportation services; 
			(E)	Reduce visual blight and clutter and litter problems associated with poorly maintained, improperly located or abandoned newsracks;
			(F)	Protect the unique aesthetic and historical attributes of the City;
			(G)	Advance the economic interests of the City's businesses and residents, including the interests of those involved in the publication or distribution of newspapers and news periodicals through newsracks; 
			(H)	Respect publications' interests in effective distribution, including by (i) allowing publications currently distributed from freestanding newsracks to receive distribution space in fixed pedestal units located at, or as close as reasonably possible to, the locations of such freestanding newsracks; (ii) allowing publications not currently distributed from freestanding newsracks to receive distribution space in fixed pedestal units, (iii) allowing the number, locations, and usage of fixed pedestal units to change over time in response to changing market conditions; and (iv) specifying reasonable conditions under which paid publications shall have the right to repair, maintain, replace or otherwise engage in self-help as to specific components of newsrack boxes they occupy that relate to newsrack box functionality; 
			(I)	Provide for streetworthy fixed pedestal units and prompt and effective maintenance, repair and replacement of such units, including by providing for expeditious maintenance, repair and replacement of parts of such units which, if not thus maintained, repaired or replaced, could significantly impede the effective use of such units for the sales or distribution of publications; and 
			(J)	Specify reasonable conditions under which paid publications may elect to have the Vendor assume responsibility for repair, maintenance, or replacement of coin mechanisms and related parts of newsrack boxes that those paid publications occupy, and may subsequently revoke such election. 
		(6)	In adopting this section, the Board of Supervisors is mindful that regulation of newsracks implicates rights protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution and by Article I, Section 2 of the California Constitution. To that end, the Board of Supervisors directs the Director of the Department of Public Works, the General Manager of the Municipal Railway, and other appropriate City officials to interpret and apply this section and the guidelines promulgated under this section, and to exercise their powers and duties, in a manner consistent with the constitutional rights of citizens and the regulated community. 
		(7)	Use of streets, public sidewalks and other public rights-of-way for distribution of newspapers may be denied where such use presents a danger to persons or property. Use of these areas for such purposes may be restricted where it unreasonably interferes with the intended use of the area or with pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or results in unreasonable levels of visual blight. 
		(8)	In recent years, City officials have noticed that a number of newsracks in the City are placed in inappropriate locations, are abandoned, or are poorly maintained. Many of these newsracks also end up being used as trash receptacles, causing unsightly and unsanitary clutter and litter. 
		(9)	Given the limited space available and the increasing congestion on certain public sidewalks, streets and public rights-of-way, the City has a substantial interest in devising an approach to placement of newsracks and fixed pedestal units in those areas that promote public health, safety and welfare and the aesthetic quality of the City. This objective may be achieved by creating "fixed pedestal zones" in highly congested areas or areas that have particular public safety, aesthetic, historical, or economic concerns. Allowing fixed pedestal units and prohibiting freestanding newsracks and unauthorized fixed pedestal units in these zones will promote the City's interest in promoting public safety, reducing visual blight and clutter, protecting the unique aesthetic and historical attributes of the City, and advancing the economic interests of the City's businesses and residents by improving the appearance of the area and resulting in better use of space and reduced congestion, while respecting publication's interests in effective distribution. A reasonable accommodation of these competing interests can be achieved by adoption of this section, which regulates the placement, size, construction design, maintenance, and appearance of newsracks and fixed pedestal units in specified areas. 
		(10)	This section is not intended to and does not ban freestanding newsracks on public sidewalks, streets and public rights-of-way throughout the City. Subject to Section 184.12(c) and the guidelines, freestanding newsracks may continue to be placed on public sidewalks, streets and public rights-of-way in areas of the City that are not within fixed pedestal zones created pursuant to this section, in accordance with Article 5.4, Sections 184 through 184.11, of the San Francisco Public Works Code and the guidelines promulgated thereunder. Publications also may continue to be distributed within fixed pedestal zones created pursuant to this section by all authorized means other than freestanding newsracks. 
	(b)	DEFINITIONS. The definitions contained in Section 184.1 shall apply to this section except to the extent such definitions are inconsistent with the following: 
		(1)	"Abandoned newsrack box" means any newsrack box that either remains empty for more than fifteen (15) business days or contains only outdated issues in violation of the guidelines promulgated under this section, after the expiration of applicable notice, grace and cure periods. In case of a labor strike or a temporary and extraordinary interruption of distribution or publication of the newspaper or other periodical sold or dispensed from that newsrack box, the publication shall notify the Director in writing in order to avoid having the newsrack box deemed abandoned. 
		(2)	A "block face" means the sidewalk between, and including, two contiguous curb corners without an intervening street or other roadway, excluding driveways. 
		(3)	A "curb corner" means the common area formed at the intersection of, and consisting of the overlap of, two adjacent sidewalks.
		(4)	A "cluster of fixed pedestal units" means two or more fixed pedestal units located such that each unit is within twenty-five feet (25') of another unit on the same block face. 
		(5)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of Public Works or his or her designated agent or representative.
		(6)	"Fixed pedestal zone" means any area designated by the Director, in accordance with this section and the guidelines in which distribution of newspapers through newsracks is restricted to fixed pedestal units installed in a style and manner approved by the Director. 
		(7)	"Fixed pedestal permit" means a permit issued to a publication authorizing the placement of the publication in one or more newsrack boxes in a fixed pedestal unit in a Fixed Pedestal Zone. 
		(8)	"Fixed pedestal unit" means an assembly which is of a type, design or model approved by the Director and which contains one or more self-service or coin-operated boxes, containers, storage units or other dispensers installed, used or maintained for the display and sale or free distribution of publications, and which is attached to the public sidewalk, street or public right-of-way in accordance with this section, guidelines promulgated under this section, and any vendor contract. 
		(9)	"Freestanding newsrack" means any self-service or coin-operated box, container, storage unit or other dispenser installed, used or maintained for the display and sale or the distribution without charge of publications, and which is not a fixed pedestal unit authorized under this section. 
		(10)	A "historically present" publication means a publication that, according to the survey completed most recently before initial implementation of this section in any fixed pedestal zone, was distributed from at least one freestanding newsrack situated cat the area in question. For purposes of the preceding sentence: 
			(A)	"Area" means either a corner area or a midblock area. A "corner area" is that general portion of a block face that, as reasonably estimated by the Director in the compilation of the survey without undertaking actual measurement, is no more than thirty-five feet (35') from the edge of the nearest curb corner on that block face, or, if there is one or more item of street furniture, utilities, or other fixed obstructions (except freestanding newsracks) within those thirty-five feet (35'), no more than fifty feet (50') from the edge of the nearest curb corner. A midblock area is that general portion of a block face that is not a corner area under this subsection. 
			(B)	Because freestanding newsracks are often inadvertently moved into locations that are illegal under City laws or regulations, a freestanding newsrack is "situated" in the area in question even if it is placed in a location that violates one or more City laws or regulations concerning freestanding newsrack placement. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, no freestanding newsrack shall support a claim of historical presence, or be counted in any survey of historically present freestanding newsracks, if it is secured to a tree, tree grate, or tree guard; is secured to or interfering with a fire hydrant, police or fire call box, or parking meter; or is located in a crosswalk, in any part of a bus zone save the last fifteen feet (15') thereof, in a blue zone, in any location where it interferes with a handicapped access ramp, or in any other location where it poses a similar significant threat to public safety or property. 
		(11)	"Initial implementation" means the first stage of implementation of this section throughout a fixed pedestal zone, and shall include the selection of locations for initial fixed pedestal units in that zone which are as close as possible to the former locations of freestanding newsracks, in compliance with this section and the guidelines; the allocation of space within those units to historically present publications and, if possible, to other interested publications; and the installation of those units. 
		(12)	"Newsrack" means a freestanding newsrack or an unauthorized fixed pedestal unit.
		(13)	"Newsrack box" shall mean the individual space within a fixed pedestal unit that dispenses one publication, including the door, coin return mechanism and associated hardware. Except as stated otherwise in this section or the guidelines, if the vendor has split a newsrack box into two separate distribution areas, each such area shall constitute a separate newsrack box. "Newsrack box" does not include any freestanding newsrack. 
		(14)	"Permit holder" means a publication that has been issued one or more fixed pedestal permits by the Director, or that is otherwise authorized to occupy one or more newsrack boxes. 
		(15)	A "petition unit" means a fixed pedestal unit installed pursuant to a petition under subsection 184.12(g)(3)(B) after initial implementation has occurred throughout the fixed pedestal zone in question. 
		(16)	"Publication" includes all editions of that publication, including but not limited to morning, evening, or special editions, as well as any editions of that publication published jointly with another publisher. 
		(17)	"Public right-of-way" means land which by deed, conveyance, agreement, easement, dedication, usage or process of law is reserved and dedicated to the general public for street, highway, alley, public utility, or pedestrian walkway purposes, whether or not said land has been improved or accepted for maintenance by the City. 
		(18)	"Roadway" means that portion of a public street that is improved or customarily used for vehicular traffic.
		(19)	"Section" or "this section," or "any subsection thereof" means Article 5.4, Section 184.12 of the San Francisco Public Works Code. 
		(20)	"Sidewalk" means any public surface or public walkway provided for the exclusive or primary use of pedestrians.
		(21)	"Street" means all that area dedicated to the public use, including but not limited to roadways, sidewalks and planter strips.
		(22)	A "survey" means a written enumeration of the freestanding newsracks situated on public sidewalks and public rights-of-way in one or more portions of the City that (A) states the name of the publication distributed from each such freestanding newsrack, with such names listed according to survey order; (B) states whether each such freestanding newsrack is situated at a corner area or midblock area, as reasonably estimated by the Director without undertaking actual measurement; (C) is conducted after the effective date of this Section; and (D) is accompanied by a contemporaneous videotape or comparable photographic depiction of such freestanding newsracks that the Director retains for at least twelve (12) months cater initial implementation in that zone is completed. For purposes of the preceding sentence "area" and "situated" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 184.12(b)(10). 
		(23)	"Survey order" means that the Director, in conducting a survey of freestanding newsracks situated in a particular area, as defined in Section 184.12(b)(10), shall proceed in the following order: 
			(A)	In surveying a corner area, the Director shall:
				(i)	First survey that group of freestanding newsracks in that area that is located on the curb side of the sidewalk (as opposed to the property line side of the sidewalk) and is located closest to the corner. Within that group, the Director shall first survey those freestanding newsracks that face toward the property line, starting with those closest to the corner, and shall then survey those freestanding newsracks that do not face toward the property line, starting with those closest to the corner; 
				(ii)	Then repeat the process described in subsection (i) immediately above for each other group of freestanding newsracks in that area that also is located on the curb side of the sidewalk, proceeding from group to group in order of increasing distance from the corner, until all groups of freestanding newsracks in that area that are located on the curb side of the sidewalk have been surveyed; 
				(iii)	Then repeat the process described in subsection (i) for each remaining group of freestanding newsracks located in that area (i.e. freestanding newsracks not on the curb side of the sidewalk), proceeding from group to group in order of increasing distance from the corner, until all groups of freestanding newsracks in that area have been surveyed. 
			(B)	In surveying a midblock area, the Director shall:
				(i)	First survey that group of freestanding newsracks in that area that is located on the curb side of the sidewalk and that a vehicle moving on that side of the street would first encounter. Within that group, the Director shall first survey those freestanding newsracks that face toward the property line, proceeding from newsrack to newsrack in the direction in which vehicular traffic on that side of the street moves, and shall then survey those freestanding newsracks that do not face toward the property line, again proceeding from newsrack to newsrack in the direction in which vehicular traffic on that side of the street moves; 
				(ii)	Then repeat the process described in subsection (i) immediately above for each other group of freestanding newsracks in that area that also is located on the curb side of the sidewalk, proceeding from group to group in the direction in which vehicular traffic on that side of the street moves, until all groups of freestanding newsracks in that area that are located on the curb side of the sidewalk have been surveyed; 
				(iii)	Then repeat the process described in subsection (i) for each remaining group of freestanding newsracks located in that area, proceeding from group to group in the direction in which vehicular traffic on that side of the street moves, until all groups of freestanding newsracks in that area have been surveyed. 
		(24)	"Unauthorized fixed pedestal unit" means an assembly containing one or more self-service or coin-operated boxes, containers, storage units or other dispensers installed, used or maintained for the display and sale or free distribution of publications, and which is attached to the public sidewalk, street or public right-of-way in a fixed pedestal zone, which is not authorized pursuant to a vendor contract. 
		(25)	"Vendor" means any individual or entity that has entered into an agreement with the Director, or any agent thereof, to provide, install and maintain fixed pedestal units pursuant to this section. 
		(26)	"Vendor contract" means any agreement between the Director and a vendor pursuant subsection 184.12(d)(3).
	(c)	SCOPE. The requirements this section shall apply to all fixed pedestal units, unauthorized fixed pedestal units, newsrack boxes and freestanding newsracks located within fixed pedestal zones designated by the Director in accordance with subsection 184.12(f) or within fifteen feet (15) of any fixed pedestal unit that is located in such a zone. To the extent any provision in Sections 184 through 184.11 is in conflict or inconsistent with this section, it is the Board of Supervisors' intention that this section shall control in any fixed pedestal zone or within fifteen feet (15) of any fixed pedestal unit that is located in such a zone. 
	(d)	GUIDELINES, FEES, AND AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR.
		(1)	Promulgation of Guidelines.
			(A)	The Director is hereby authorized and directed to promptly promulgate guidelines consistent with the provisions of this section controlling the selection of locations for, as well as the placement, size, construction, design, methods of attachment, appearance, and maintenance and repair of fixed pedestal units and newsrack boxes in fixed pedestal zones. The guidelines shall also contain procedures for establishing or amending fixed pedestal zones, for determining access by publications to fixed pedestal units, and for obtaining fixed pedestal permits. The guidelines may also set maximum density levels for fixed pedestal units in fixed pedestal zones, including different levels for commercial and residential areas of the City. 
			(B)	In promulgating guidelines, the Director's decisions shall be consistent with the purpose of this section, as set forth in subsection 184.12(a)(5)(A)-(J). 
			(C)	The guidelines shall be adopted by way of a Department of Public Works order signed by the Director after giving due consideration to the recommendations of the Newsrack Advisory Committee. The provisions of this section governing fixed pedestal units, access to fixed pedestal units by publications, and prohibiting freestanding newsracks and unauthorized fixed pedestal units in fixed pedestal zones shall not be implemented or enforced until the guidelines specified in this paragraph are in effect and notice of the effective date has been published in the City's official newspaper. 
		(2)	Procedures or Adopting or Amending Guidelines. Prior to adopting or amending the guidelines the Director shall publish notice in the City's official newspaper of the Director's intent to adopt or amend the guidelines. Copies of the proposed or amended guidelines shall be made available to the public upon request. 
		(3)	Authority to Contractor Services. The Director is hereby authorized to select and enter into an agreement with a vendor or vendors to provide for the installation and maintenance of fixed pedestal units in accordance with this section. Any such agreement shall include, in addition to any other provisions required by applicable City laws or by guidelines adopted by the Director pursuant to subparagraph (1), the following requirements: 
			(A)	The vendor shall provide for streetworthy fixed pedestal units, and shall be responsible for installing and promptly and effectively maintaining the condition and appearance of, and repairing and replacing, all fixed pedestal units and newsrack boxes subject to the agreement (except for responsibilities which are the obligation of the permit holder pursuant to subsection 184.12(i) in accordance with the terms of the agreement and the requirements of this section; 
			(B)	The vendor shall provide a way to disable and render inoperative any newsrack box that is found by the Director to be in violation of this section by means such as a locking plate over the offending newsrack box. The vendor(s) shall agree to disable any such newsrack boxes within 24 hours of receiving notice to do so from the Director; 
			(C)	A statement to accordance with Section 6.63-1 of the San Francisco Administrative Code that the vendor has a clear and unequivocal understanding that a possessory interest subject to taxation may be created by the agreement and the vendor shall pay any and all possessory interest taxes levied upon the vendor's interest therein pursuant to an assessment lawfully made by the Assessor; 
			(D)	The vendor shall furnish evidence of insurance that is satisfactory to the City Risk Manager, and that names the City as an additional insured; 
			(E)	The vendor shall have no authority to make determinations concerning where fixed pedestal units will be located, or concerning which publications shall have access to a fixed pedestal unit; 
			(F)	Where the Director intends to allow the vendor to place advertising on the back of one or more fixed pedestal units authorized under this section, the agreement shall set forth the requirements applicable to such advertising, including the requirements set forth in subsection 184.12(i)(1)(F); 
			(G)	The vendor shall provide a reasonable opportunity for paid publications to elect to have the vendor assume responsibility for repair, maintenance, or replacement of coin mechanisms and related parts of newsrack boxes that those paid publications occupy, and to subsequently revoke such an election; 
			(H)	The vendor shall specify reasonable conditions under which publications shall have the right to repair, maintain, replace or otherwise engage in self-help as to specific components of newsrack boxes they occupy, and to obtain reimbursement for certain repair, maintenance, or replacement; 
			(I)	The vendor shall provide for installation of reasonable security features to protect the integrity of the fixed pedestal units, including any coin mechanisms and associated hardware; 
			(J)	The vendor shall allow paid publications, at their own cost, to change the coin mechanism in newsrack boxes they occupy, subject to reasonable notice and procedures, to adapt to changing technology and advances; 
			(K)	The vendor shall maintain and display a "hotline" telephone number on the fixed pedestal units authorized by the vendor contract;
			(L)	The vendor shall reasonably retain information as to complaints concerning and repairs to each newsrack box in each fixed pedestal unit authorized by the vendor contract and make such information available, reasonably promptly, to the publication occupying each such newsrack box and to the Director; 
			(M)	The vendor shall provide a way to split newsrack boxes into two separate distribution areas for the distribution of publications that are distributed free of charge; and 
			(N)	The vendor shall be responsible for the installation, repair and replacement of price plates, if any, including installation, repair and replacement necessitated by a change in the price of a publication. 
			(O)	The current provisions of the "First Amended and Restated Pedestal-Mounted Newsrack Agreement By and Between the City and County of San Francisco and Clear Channel Adshel, Inc." satisfy the current requirements of this section concerning vendor contracts, as of the date of the City's approval and authorization of said agreement, including the requirements listed at Section 184.12(d)(3)(A)-(N), above. In the event of any disagreement, interpretive issue, ambiguity, or silence in respect to the tens of this section and said agreement, said agreement, except as to any amendment, modification or supplement to either or both the agreement or this section, shall control the rights and obligations of the Vendor under said agreement, whose fulfillment of the current provisions of said agreement shall constitute compliance with this section. 
		(4)	Content-Based Discrimination Prohibited. The Director shall not consider the content or viewpoint of the material to be distributed through fixed pedestal units in administering or enforcing this section, or in adopting or implementing guidelines pursuant to this section. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as limiting the authority of the Director to require blinder racks for adult-oriented publications in accordance with subsection 184.12(i). 
		(5)	Newsrack Advisory Committee. The Director is hereby authorized and directed to establish a Newsrack Advisory Committee consisting of 11 members. The Newsrack Program Manager of the Department of Public Works shall be a voting member, and shall chair the Committee. The Director shall appoint to the Committee persons drawn from, or having expertise in, the newspaper, news and/or commercial periodical, and distributing industries in the City, and/or drawn from neighborhood and merchant groups, and other interested members of the public. The number of Committee members who are representatives of publishers and/or distributors shall equal the number of Committee members who are representatives of neighborhood and/or merchant groups. The Director shall endeavor to include on the Committee representatives paid and unpaid publications and of more and less frequently published publications. The Committee shall advise the Director in the implementation and administration of this section; resolve disputes concerning the locations of fixed pedestal units, to the extent consistent with this section and the guidelines; and minimize the cost to the City of the implementation and administration of this section. No vendor or agent or employee of a vendor may serve on the Committee. Committee members shall serve at the pleasure of the Director for a term of one year, and may be reappointed to additional terms. The Committee shall hold regularly scheduled meetings, with notice posted in the City's official newspaper. 
		(6)	Fees.
			(A)	The Director is hereby authorized and directed to establish and collect an annual permit fee to be paid by each permit holder. This fee is established at $50 for each newsrack box, including each split newsrack box. The Director has determined that the anticipated annual revenue from this fee within any particular year shall not exceed the actual costs incurred by the Director for implementation, administration and enforcement of the program during that year. The fee shall only be used to cover such costs, and not as a revenue-generating source for the City. The fee adopted pursuant to this provision shall be nonrefundable, and shall be uniformly imposed upon all permit holders based upon the number of newsrack boxes authorized for each permit holder. The fee shall not exceed the pro-rata share allocated to each newsrack box of the actual costs incurred in implementing, administering, and enforcing the program established under this section. 
			(B)	The fee shall be reviewed annually by the Director, who shall propose to the Board of Supervisors any recommended adjustments, along with written justification for the adjustment and any necessary legislation. In any year where the Director anticipates that the revenue from fees will exceed the estimated administrative costs, less penalties, during that year, the Director shall recommend an adjustment reducing the fee. Where the proceeds from the fee are less than the estimated costs of program administration, less penalties, the Director may recommend an adjustment. In proposing adjustments, the Director shall take into account the anticipated penalties and other charges to be collected from violators during the forthcoming year. These proceeds shall be used to offset program administration and enforcement costs that would otherwise be defrayed by fees imposed during the forthcoming year so that the fees, including any surplus from the prior year, do not exceed the projected actual costs of administering the program. For any year in which the fee proceeds exceed actual administration, inspection and abatement expenses, such surplus shall be taken into account in fixing the fee for the subsequent year. 
	(e)	PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
		(1)	Fixed Pedestal Permit. Permits are necessary to facilitate the regulation and inspection of newsrack boxes for the purposes set forth in this section. Except where this section or the guidelines expressly provide otherwise, no person may place any publication in any newsrack box in a fixed pedestal unit on a public sidewalk, street or public right-of-way in a fixed pedestal zone for the purpose of sale or distribution without having first obtained from the Director a fixed pedestal permit authorizing placement of the publication in that newsrack box. 
		(2)	Duty to Obtain Permit. Except where this section or the guidelines expressly provide otherwise, each publication seeking access to a newsrack box or boxes in a fixed pedestal unit or cluster of fixed pedestal units shall apply to the City or a fixed pedestal permit for each newsrack box in each fixed pedestal unit to which the publication seeks access. The permit holder shall be responsible for the payment of all fees or penalties due or imposed under this section with respect to that permit holder's newsrack box(es). Once a permit has been granted pursuant to this section and the requirements of the guidelines, and if the permit has not subsequently been revoked, the permit holder shall not be required to renew or reapply for another fixed pedestal permit for the same newsrack box. 
		(3)	Application. Application for a fixed pedestal permit shall be made in writing on a form and in a manner provided by the City and filed with the Director or by other medium approved by the Director. The application package shall inform the applicant of the requirements of this section and the guidelines promulgated under this section. 
		(4)	Permit Issuance.
			(A)	The Director shall grant or deny a properly completed and timely application for a fixed pedestal permit from a publication, or from the agent for a publication, accompanied by written authorization from the publication, as specified in the guidelines, within fifteen (15) business days of the Director's receipt of the application. However, if the Director has not completed the application of the space allocation procedures set forth in subsection 184.12(h) and the guidelines, the Director shall have an additional five (5) business days to grant or deny the application. 
			(B)	The Director shall issue the fixed pedestal permit unless the Director finds one or more of the following grounds for denial to exist, in which case the Director shall deny the application for a permit. The grounds for denial of an application for a fixed pedestal permit are: (i) the application is incomplete; (ii) the application was not submitted on time; (iii) space in the newsrack box that is the subject of the application is not available after application of the space allocation procedures set forth in subsection 184.12(h) and the guidelines; or (iv) the publication that applied for the permit has failed to pay any outstanding administrative penalties levied against it pursuant to subsection 184.12(k)(1)(A). If an application is denied, the Director shall notify the applicant promptly in writing, explaining the reasons for the denial, and citing the relevant portions of this subsection and the guidelines. 
		(5)	Violations. Failure to comply with any requirement of this section, or any requirement of the guidelines authorized by this section, shall constitute a violation of this section. Any such violation may be cause for removal of the offending freestanding newsrack or unauthorized fixed pedestal unit, or disabling of the offending newsrack box pursuant to subsection 184.12(j), and for the imposition of administrative penalties pursuant to subsection 184.12(k). 
		(6)	Permit Revocation.
			(A)	The Board of Supervisors specifically determines that any fixed pedestal permit issued pursuant to this section confers a non-transferable, revocable privilege upon the permit holder. Where one or more of the grounds for revocation specified in subparagraph (B) exist, the Director shall promptly initiate such revocation in order to ensure that space in the fixed pedestal unit is made available to another publication that will lawfully use it, including publications that did not receive such space during initial implementation in the fixed pedestal zone in which the fixed pedestal unit in question is located. Any such permit may be revoked by the Director fifteen (15) business days after the Director provides written notice to the permit holder that one or more of the grounds for revocation specified in subparagraph (B) exist, if the permit holder does not correct all of the violations on or before the close of the fifteenth (15th) business day. If the permit is revoked, the Director shall notify the permit holder promptly in writing, explaining the reasons or the revocation, and citing the relevant portions of this subsection and the guidelines. 
			(B)	The grounds for revocation of a fixed pedestal permit are: (i) the permit holder did not submit the required permit fee, as specified in the guidelines, within ten (10) business days of the Director's approval of the voluntary space allocation agreement or of the space allocation meeting at which the permit holder was allocated the newsrack box that is the subject of the permit; (ii) the permit holder did not submit the required annual fee on time; (iii) the newsrack box that is the subject of the permit has been vacated pursuant to subsection 184.12(j)(3)(D); (iv) the newsrack box that is the subject of the permit has been abandoned pursuant to subsection 184.12(b)(1); or (v) the Director's decision to grant the permit was successfully challenged by a person aggrieved by the determination pursuant to subsection 184.12(m) and the guidelines. In addition, the Board of Supervisors may at any time in its exclusive legislative discretion elect to repeal or amend this section and thereby render null and void any permits issued pursuant this section. 
	(f)	ESTABLISHMENT OF FIXED PEDESTAL ZONES.
		(1)	Fixed Pedestal Units Restricted. No person shall place, operate or maintain a fixed pedestal unit on any public street, public sidewalk or public right-of-way located in a fixed pedestal zone except in accordance with a vendor contract. Any unauthorized fixed pedestal unit which in whole or in part is attached to or rests upon a public street, public sidewalk or public right-of-way located in a fixed pedestal zone shall be subject to impoundment pursuant to subsection 184.12(j). The owner of any unauthorized fixed pedestal unit properly impounded by the Director under subsection 184.12(j) shall be responsible for restoring the sidewalk to its original condition by replacing the concrete or other material in accordance with Section 703.2 of the Public Works Code. 
		(2)	Freestanding Newsracks Prohibited. No person shall place, operate or maintain a freestanding newsrack on any public street, public sidewalk or public right-of-way located in fixed pedestal zone, or located within fifteen feet (15') of any fixed pedestal unit that is located in a fixed pedestal zone. Any freestanding newsrack which in whole or in part or rests upon a public street, sidewalk or right-of-way located in a fixed pedestal zone, or located within fifteen feet (15') of any fixed pedestal unit that is located in a fixed pedestal zone, shall be subject to impoundment pursuant to subsection 184.12(j). 
		(3)	Fixed Pedestal Zones.
			(A)	The Director is authorized to establish one or more fixed pedestal zones within the City subject to the following requirements:
				(i)	The Director shall determine the location of fixed pedestal zones in compliance with, and consistent with the purpose and intent of, this section and the guidelines. Subject to subsection 184.12(f)(3)(A)(iii), such zones generally shall be established only in areas of the City which have one or more of the following: extensive public transit service, usage, and/or facilities; large concentrations of freestanding newsracks; or large numbers of pedestrians. 
				(ii)	The Director shall not establish a fixed pedestal zone in any area of the City unless, within the immediately preceding twenty-four (24) months, the Director has completed a survey of that area and made that survey publicly available reasonably promptly upon its completion, and no later than the establishment of the fixed pedestal zone. Each such survey shall be completed reasonably promptly after it is begun. 
				(iii)	Where a fixed pedestal zone would not otherwise contain sufficient space to install fixed pedestal units sufficient to accommodate those publications which the survey shows to be historically present in that zone, in accordance with this section and the guidelines, the Director shall establish or amend the zone to include adjoining portions of intersecting side streets, or adjacent portions of the street on which the zone was established (including where the zone was established only on one side of a street, portions of the other side of that street), as necessary to increase the space available in the zone for fixed pedestal units to accommodate such publications, if reasonably possible. 
				(iv)	Except as this section or the guidelines provide otherwise, the Director shall establish fixed pedestal zones following consultation with the Newsrack Advisory Committee. Each zone shall be deemed established as of the date the Director publishes notice of the zone's location in the City's official newspaper following such consultation. 
			(B)	Subject to the requirements of this section, the guidelines, and any vendor contract, initial implementation of this section within each fixed pedestal zone shall begin promptly after the Director establishes that zone. All aspects of initial implementation that require information contained in a survey, including the selection of fixed pedestal unit locations or the initial allocation of space in fixed pedestal units to historically present publications, shall only occur on the basis of a survey that was completed no more than twenty-four (24) months earlier. 
			(C)	Not later than twelve (12) months after the Director first implements this section pursuant to subsection 184.12(l), and at least once every two (2) years thereafter, the Director shall issue a report in writing to the Board of Supervisors. This report shall address the implementation of this section, inform the Board of the effectiveness of the existing Fixed Pedestal Zones, and make any recommendations and include proposed legislation regarding changes that the Director believes are necessary, including, without limitation, any changes believed necessary to ensure that publications that did not receive space in fixed pedestal units in initial implementation are subsequently able to receive such space. 
	(g)	LOCATIONS AND PLACEMENT OF FIXED PEDESTAL UNITS.
		(1)	General.
			(A)	All fixed pedestal units within a designated fixed pedestal zone shall be of a design designated by the Director and approved by the Art Commission pursuant to its authority under City Charter Section 5.103. The Director shall consider the factors set forth in subsection 184.12(a)(5) in selecting designs for fixed pedestal units. 
			(B)	The Director shall monitor the installation and maintenance of fixed pedestal units and newsrack boxes in fixed pedestal zones.
		(2)	Selection of Fixed Pedestal Unit Locations.
			(A)	Initial Units. During initial implementation in each fixed pedestal zone, the locations of fixed pedestal units in that zone shall be selected, so that to the extent reasonably possible and in compliance with this section and the guidelines, (i) publications that are historically present at corner areas (as defined in Section 184.12(b)(10)) may receive space in fixed pedestal units located in that zone as close as reasonably possible to, and no more than seven feet (7') from, the curb corner, excluding space taken up by intervening street furniture; (ii) publications that are historically present at midblock areas (as defined in Section 184.12(b)(10)) may receive space in fixed pedestal units in that zone located as close as possible to the midblock locations of their former freestanding newsracks; and (iii) the number of newsrack boxes at each fixed pedestal unit location equals the number of freestanding newsracks historically present at each such location. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, initial implementation, including the selection (fixed pedestal unit locations, in a fixed pedestal zone may occur even if the objectives stated subsections (i), (ii), and/or (iii) of the foregoing sentence cannot be wholly achieved, in which case those objectives will be achieved to the extent reasonably possible consistent with this section and the guidelines. Initial fixed pedestal unit locations shall be selected in accordance with the requirements of the guidelines and with the following requirements: 
				(i)	Each publication shall have a reasonable opportunity to submit a proposal (a "plan") to the Director proposing fixed pedestal units at locations situated pursuant to Section 184.12(g)(2)(A), at which the publication is historically present within the fixed pedestal zone, according to the survey. If at least three-quarters () of the publications that are historically present at a location in the survey do not collectively submit a single plan concerning that location, the Director may select a location or locations for fixed pedestal units to replace the freestanding newsracks at that location in accordance with Section 184.12(g)(2)(A). Any plan submitted by any publication(s) may include one or more proposed locations. 
				(ii)	The Director may amend or reject all or part of a plan submitted by at least three-quarters () of the publications that are historically present at a particular survey location only if the plan fails to comply with this Section and the guidelines. If the Director amends or rejects all or part of such a plan, he shall explain the basis for the amendment or rejection in writing, citing the portions of this Section and/or the guidelines upon which he relies, and shall afford those publications a reasonable opportunity to revise their plan to address the grounds for such amendment or rejection. If those publications do not do so, the Director may determine the locations of fixed pedestal units as to which he amended or rejected the publishers' plan provided such determination is in compliance with this Section and the guidelines. 
				(iii)	If at least three-quarters () of the publications that are historically present at a particular survey location revise their plan to address the grounds for the Director's amendment or rejection thereof within a reasonable time, and those publications and the Director cannot agree on locations for fixed pedestal units in the zone following such revisions, the locations in dispute may be resolved by the Newsrack Advisory Committee in accordance with all requirements of this section, the guidelines, and the vendor contract, if and only if the Director receives a request for such Newsrack Advisory Committee review submitted by at least three-quarters () of the publications that are historically present at the survey location in dispute. The Committee's determination (or, if the Committee fails to promptly decide, the Director's most recent determination) shall constitute the City's final administrative determination. Any party may bring a court reporter to any such Committee meeting and record a transcript of the meeting. 
			(B)	Petition Units. After initial implementation within a fixed pedestal zone has been completed, any publication may submit a petition to the Director requesting the installation of an additional fixed pedestal unit be installed at a location specified in the petition. Other interested publications may submit a proposal for the location of the petition unit to the Director. If the Director receives a proposal for the location of the petition unit from at least three-quarters () of the interested publications (including the petitioner) that complies with this section and the guidelines, the location set forth in such proposal shall be the proposed location or purposes of locating the petition unit. If the Director does not receive such a proposal, the location proposed in the petition shall be the proposed location for purposes of locating the petition unit. The location of each petition unit shall be determined in accordance with procedures contained in the guidelines. If the location as thereby determined is consistent with the requirements of this section and the guidelines, the Director shall authorize the installation of the fixed pedestal unit at the specified location. The Director shall deny any petition under this paragraph that would violate the maximum density levels set forth in the guidelines, or that would cause the total number of fixed pedestal units to exceed the number of fixed pedestal units available under any vendor contract. The Director also shall deny any petition that seeks the installation of one or more fixed pedestal units at an intersection at which, within the twelve months preceding the petition, a consolidation of fixed pedestal units has taken place pursuant to Section 184.12(g)(2)(E). However, the Director shall not deny any petition that complies with Section 184.12 and the guidelines on the ground that one or more fixed pedestal units are being held in reserve. 
			(C)	Relocated Units. In the event that the vendor initiates relocation of any fixed pedestal unit due to excessive repair costs pursuant to the vendor contract, the Director shall promptly select the location to which the unit shall be relocated and reconfigure the fixed pedestal zone to exclude the area from which the fixed pedestal unit is being relocated, as set forth in the guidelines. The Director shall maintain a list of potential locations for such purpose. 
			(D)	Reserve Units. To accommodate the installation of additional fixed pedestal units after initial implementation, and to respond to changing conditions and publications that may seek distribution space in fixed pedestal units in the future, the Director shall make reasonable efforts to implement this section in a manner that maintains some of the fixed pedestal units authorized under a vendor contract in reserve. Such reserve shall be numerous enough to allow the maximum number of fixed pedestal units that can be installed in existing fixed pedestal zones in compliance with this section and the guidelines, to be installed in those zones. No request, petition, or plan for a fixed pedestal unit that complies with this Section and the guidelines shall be denied on the ground that one or more fixed pedestal units are being held in reserve. 
			(E)	Consolidation. If newsrack boxes in fixed pedestal units located at a particular intersection have been abandoned or have otherwise become available for reallocation, and the Director has made reasonable efforts to reallocate such newsrack boxes but notwithstanding such efforts newsrack boxes in such fixed pedestal units remain un-allocated, the Director may consolidate the fixed pedestal units located at that intersection by removing one or more of those units at that intersection. Any such consolidation shall comply with the following requirements: 
				(i)	Consolidation shall occur only if the fixed pedestal unit(s) to be located at that intersection after consolidation will provide distribution space sufficient to allow each publication that was being distributed from one or more fixed pedestal unit(s) at that intersection immediately before consolidation (an "affected publication") to still be distributed from the same number of newsrack boxes at that intersection after consolidation as it was distributed from before consolidation; 
				(ii)	The Director shall notify the affected publications, in writing, of his intent to consolidate the fixed pedestal units at that intersection, and of the number of units to be removed as part of the consolidation; 
				(iii)	The affected publications shall have thirty (30) days to provide the Director with a written proposal, agreed to by at least 75% of the affected publications, as to which of the fixed pedestal units located at that intersection shall be removed to accomplish the removal of the number of units the Director intends; 
				(iv)	If such a written proposal is timely submitted and is consistent with the requirements of this Section 184.12 and the guidelines, the Director shall accept the proposal; 
				(v)	If no such written proposal is timely submitted that is consistent with the requirements of this Section 184.12 and the guidelines, the Director shall accomplish the intended number of removals by selecting for removal those fixed pedestal unit(s) at that intersection that have the highest share of their newsrack boxes unoccupied, so long as removal of such unit(s) will allow each affected publication to continue to be distributed from the same number of newsrack boxes at that intersection after consolidation as it was distributed from before consolidation; 
				(vi)	Where a fixed pedestal unit is to be removed as part of consolidation, and a publication that was distributed from a newsrack box in that unit before consolidation (a "pre-consolidation box") is, as part of the consolidation process, allocated space in a fixed pedestal unit that will remain at that intersection following consolidation (a "post-consolidation box"), that publication shall not be required to vacate the pre-consolidation box before the post-consolidation box is made available for its use. The publication also shall not be required to pay an additional fixed pedestal permit fee to occupy the post-consolidation box during the year for which it already paid a fixed pedestal permit fee to occupy the pre-consolidation box. 
			(F)	Modifying The Size Of A Fixed Pedestal Unit. If newsrack boxes in a fixed pedestal unit have been abandoned or have otherwise become available for reallocation, and the Director has made reasonable efforts to reallocate those newsrack boxes but notwithstanding such efforts newsrack boxes in the fixed pedestal unit remain un-allocated, the Director may modify the size of the fixed pedestal unit to reduce the number of newsrack boxes it contains. Any such modification in size shall comply with the following requirements: 
				(i)	The modification shall occur only if even after the modification, the fixed pedestal unit will provide distribution space sufficient to allow each publication that was being distributed from one or more newsrack boxes in the unit immediately before the modification (an "affected publication") to still be distributed from the same number of newsrack boxes in that unit after the modification; 
				(ii)	The Director shall notify the affected publications, in writing, of his intent to modify the fixed pedestal unit's size, specifying the number of newsrack boxes the unit shall contain after modification; 
				(iii)	The Director shall endeavor to ensure that notwithstanding a modification in the size of a fixed pedestal unit, affected publications remain able to be distributed from the unit as continuously as reasonably possible while the modification is in process. A publication being distributed from a fixed pedestal unit whose size has been modified shall not be required to pay an additional fixed pedestal permit fee to occupy that unit during the year for which it already paid a fixed pedestal permit fee to occupy the unit before modification. 
	(h)	ALLOCATION OF SPACE WITHIN FIXED PEDESTAL UNITS.
		(1)	General.
			(A)	Except as this section or the guidelines expressly provide otherwise, no publication that has obtained a space in a fixed pedestal unit or cluster of fixed pedestal units may receive a second space in that unit or cluster until all other publications that have applied for space in that unit or cluster of units have had the opportunity to select a space. 
			(B)	Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section, (i) no publication may receive more than one newsrack box per fixed pedestal unit or cluster of fixed pedestal units on the basis of historical presence, and (ii) a publication's use of more than one freestanding newsrack at a particular area prior to initial implementation shall not be a ground for that publication to receive more than one newsrack box on the basis of historical presence. 
		(2)	Initial Implementation. During initial implementation throughout a fixed pedestal zone, space in each fixed pedestal unit or cluster of fixed pedestal units in that zone shall be allocated as follows: 
			(A)	If possible, publications that have applied for space in such a unit or cluster shall agree unanimously among themselves with respect to allocation of space in the fixed pedestal unit(s). 
			(B)	Absent such agreement, the Director shall allocate space in the unit or cluster among publications that have applied for such space as follows: 
				(i)	First priority shall be given to publications that were historically present in the area (as defined in Section 184.12(b)(10)) in which were located the freestanding newsracks that the fixed pedestal unit or cluster of fixed pedestal units is intended to replace. 
				(ii)	Second priority, in the case of fixed pedestal units) that are located at a corner area (as defined in Section 184.12(b)(10)), shall be given to those publications that were historically present in the immediately adjacent midblock area. Second priority, in the case of fixed pedestal unit(s) that are located at a midblock area (as defined in Section 184.12(b)(10)), shall be given to those publications that were historically present in the immediately adjacent corner area. 
				(iii)	Third, priority shall be given to all other publications that have applied for space in the fixed pedestal unit or cluster of fixed pedestal unit, including, subject to Section 184.12(h)(1)(a) publications that were historically present at that area or an immediately adjacent midblock area but have already received one newsrack box in that unit or cluster on the basis of such historical presence. 
				(iv)	The Director shall implement this allocation scheme as to fixed pedestal units located at corner areas before doing so at immediately adjacent midblock areas. In implementing this allocation scheme as to each fixed pedestal unit or cluster of fixed pedestal units, the Director shall conduct a meeting at which each publication in each category, beginning with category (i), historically present publications, may select a newsrack box in a given fixed pedestal unit or cluster until all newsrack boxes have been selected. If any newsrack boxes remain unselected after each publication in category (i) that so desires has chosen a newsrack box in that fixed pedestal unit or cluster, each publication in category (ii) shall select a newsrack box until all newsrack boxes have been selected or each publication in category (ii) that so desires has chosen a newsrack box in that fixed pedestal unit or cluster, and so forth through category (iii). The publications in each category may agree among themselves as to the order they will follow in selecting newsrack boxes; if they are unable to agree, publications in categories (i) and (ii) shall select according to survey order, and publications in category (iii) shall select according to such order as the Director determines by lots. 
		(3)	Petition Units. Space in each petition unit shall be allocated as follows: 
			(A)	If possible, publications seeking space in a petition unit shall agree unanimously among themselves with respect to the allocation of space in the unit. 
			(B)	Absent such agreement, the Director shall allocate space in the unit as follows:
				(i)	First priority shall be given to each publication that was historically present in the zone, according to the most recently completed survey of that zone, and that, during initial implementation in that zone, sought but did not receive the maximum number of newsrack boxes that could be allocated to it on the basis of historical presence, in accordance with this section and the guidelines. 
					(a)	To receive first priority, each such publication, within twelve (12) months before the Director received the petition, must have been distributed from a freestanding newsrack that, according to the most recently completed survey of that zone, was located on the same block face as, or a block face that immediately adjoins and is on the same street and same side of the street as, the block face on which the petition unit will be located, and that has not previously been used successfully as a basis for first priority in space allocation in any petition unit. 
					(b)	Within the group of publications described in subsection 184.12(h)(3)(B)(i), publications shall select space in the petition unit based on frequency of publication, with all publications published at least once per week choosing first, followed by all publications published less often than once per week but more often than once per month, followed by all publications published once per month or less frequently. Within each such frequency category, publications shall select space in the petition unit in any mutually agreed upon order, or, absent such agreement, in an order determined by lots. 
				(ii)	Second priority shall be given to all other publications that have applied for space in the petition unit.
					(a)	The order it which such publications shall select space in the petition unit shall be determined according to Section 184.12(h)(3)(B)(i)(b).
					(b)	Notwithstanding subsection (a), above, if any such publication already occupies at least one newsrack box in a fixed pedestal unit located either on the same block face as the petition unit ("the petition block face"), the block face(s) immediately across the street from the petition block face, or either of the two block faces that immediately adjoin and are on the same street and same side of the street as the petition block face, that publication shall not select space in the petition unit until all other publications that have applied for space in the petition unit have received at least one such space. 
		(4)	Abandoned Newsrack Boxes. When a newsrack box in an already installed fixed pedestal unit has been abandoned or otherwise becomes available for reallocation, space in that newsrack box shall be allocated in the same manner as space in a petition unit, provided that: 
			(A)	Such a newsrack box may not be re-allocated to the publication that occupied it immediately before such re-allocation, unless no other publication seeks space in that newsrack box; 
			(B)	The twelve (12) month period within which a historically present publication must have used a freestanding newsrack in order to obtain first priority in such allocation shall consist of the twelve (12) months before the newsrack box became available for re-allocation; and 
			(C)	If the Director has held a space allocation meeting within the last 12 months in an attempt to allocate space in a particular newsrack box, but that space remains unallocated following such meeting, the Director may allocate that space on a first-come-first-served basis ("informal allocation"), provided that: 
				(i)	space cannot be informally allocated to a publication that already occupies another newsrack box in that fixed pedestal unit;
				(ii)	informal allocation must be made without regard to historic presence or frequency of publication;
				(iii)	space may only be informally allocated to a publication that has a current newsrack certificate on file, that has provided the Director with black and white camera-ready art for its name and trade dress, and that, within 10 business days after the informal allocation, pays the required fixed pedestal permit fee (a "qualified applicant"); 
				(iv)	the Director has published notice of his intent to informally allocate such space, and also has provided such notice by electronic mail to each publication that has a newsrack certificate on file; 
				(v)	DPW's website lists all newsrack boxes currently available for informal allocation; and
				(vi)	the space shall be informally allocated to the first qualified applicant to return to the Director, via fax or electronic mail, a properly completed "request to receive unallocated newsrack box" form, which form shall be available on DPW's website. 
		(5)	Relocated Fixed Pedestal Units. Space in a fixed pedestal unit that has been relocated due to excessive repair costs pursuant to s vendor contract shall be allocated in the same manner as space in a petition unit, provided that the twelve (12) month period within which a historically present publication must have used a freestanding newsrack in order to obtain first priority in such allocation shall consist of the twelve (12) months before the Director selects the location at which the fixed pedestal unit shall be installed. 
		(6)	Split Door Newsrack Boxes.
			(A)	Newsrack boxes may be split into two separate distribution areas to distribute free publications, including those historically present free publications that sought but did not receive the maximum number of newsrack boxes that could be allocated to them on the basis of historical presence, in accordance with this section and the guidelines. 
			(B)	Space within split newsrack boxes shall be allocated consistent with the guidelines, provided that:
				(i)	Any free publication may elect to designate a newsrack box in which space has been assigned to it as a split door newsrack box, so long as one-half of the split door newsrack box is continuously used to distribute that publication ("the primary publication"). 
				(ii)	The other half of the split door newsrack box may be used to distribute the primary publication, or to distribute any other free publication published by publisher of the primary publication ("a secondary publication"), regardless of the secondary publication's frequency of publication or when the secondary publication was first published or distributed. 
				(iii)	The publisher of the primary publication may substitute any one of its free publications (including the primary publication) for another as the secondary publication, consistent with this section and the guidelines, so long as one-half of the split box is continuously used to distribute the primary publication. 
		(7)	Space in Consolidated Fixed Pedestal Units. Where fixed pedestal units at an intersection have been consolidated pursuant to Section 184.12(g)(2)(E), space in each fixed pedestal unit located at that intersection following consolidation shall be allocated as follows: 
			(A)	A newsrack box that already was allocated to a publication before consolidation shall not be re-allocated as part of the consolidation process, and shall remain allocated to that publication following consolidation, unless that publication vacates, abandons, or otherwise ceases to be entitled to distribute from that newsrack box. 
			(B)	Newsrack boxes that were not allocated before consolidation shall, if possible, be allocated to publications that seek space in such newsrack boxes and that, immediately before consolidation, were being distributed from fixed pedestal units at that intersection that have been or are to be removed as a result of consolidation. Such publications shall select from the available spaces in the post-consolidation fixed pedestal unit(s) in any mutually agreed-upon order, or, absent such agreement, in an order determined by lots. Such publications shall continue to select spaces in the post-consolidation fixed pedestal unit(s) until each such publication has had an opportunity to select the same number of newsrack boxes in the post-consolidation unit(s) as it previously had been allocated in the unit(s) that were located at that intersection before consolidation and were removed as the result of consolidation. At that point, any newsrack boxes in the post-consolidation fixed pedestal unit(s) that remain unallocated shall be subject to reallocation pursuant to Section 184.12(h)(4). 
		(8)	Space in Fixed Pedestal Units Whose Size Has Been Modified. Where the size of a fixed pedestal unit has been modified pursuant to Section 184.12(g)(2)(F), space in that unit following the modification shall be allocated as follows: 
			(A)	If possible, publications that seek space in the unit and were being distributed from that unit immediately before its modification shall unanimously agree among themselves with respect to allocation of space in the unit in a writing received by the Director within ten (10) business days of the Director's notice of modification given pursuant to Section 184.12(g)(2)(F)(ii). 
			(B)	Failing such agreement, each publication that had been allocated a newsrack box in the upper left corner, the upper right corner, the lower left corner, or the lower right corner of the unit immediately before its modification shall be allowed to select the same corner newsrack box following the modification. After each such publication has had an opportunity to select the appropriate corner newsrack box, then each remaining publication that seeks space in the unit and was being distributed from the unit immediately before its modification shall have an opportunity to select from the remaining unallocated newsrack boxes in the unit, making their selections in an order determined by lots. At that point, any newsrack boxes in the unit that remain unallocated shall be subject to reallocation pursuant to Section 184.12(h)(4). 
	(i)	STANDARDS FOR DESIGN, MAINTENANCE AND DISPLAY. The vendor and permit holders shall comply with the following requirements. Failure to comply with any of these requirements shall constitute a violation of this section, and shall be grounds for imposition of penalties in accordance with subsections 184.12(j) and 184.12(k). 
		(1)	Except as this subsection or the guidelines provide otherwise, and subject to Section 184.12(d)(3)(O) with respect to the current provisions of the "First Amended and Restated Pedestal-Mounted Newsrack Agreement By and Between the City and County of San Francisco and Clear Channel Adshel. Inc.," the vendor shall be responsible for ensuring that all fixed pedestal units and newsrack boxes under its control are in compliance with the following requirements: 
			(A)	Every fixed pedestal unit and newsrack box shall be maintained in a neat and clean condition and in good repair at all times. The vendor shall be responsible for inspecting fixed pedestal units and newsrack boxes under its control to ensure compliance with this section no less than once per day Monday through Friday; 
			(B)	Every fixed pedestal unit and newsrack box shall be constructed, installed and maintained in a safe and secure condition;
			(C)	Every fixed pedestal unit and newsrack box shall be kept free of graffiti and rust, and shall be repaired on a regular basis;
			(D)	Fixed pedestal units or newsrack boxes that are damaged or defaced shall be replaced, repaired or removed within ten (10) business days from the date of written notice from the Director; 
			(E)	Except as authorized pursuant to a vendor contract with respect to advertising panels and names and logos of the vendor and/or any entities with whom it has contracted for services to performance of said contract, no fixed pedestal unit or newsrack box shall be used for advertising signs or publicity purposes other than for the advertising, identification, promotion, display, sale or distribution of the newspaper(s) or other publication(s) distributed from it; 
			(F)	Where a vendor is authorized to place advertising on fixed pedestal units, the vendor shall comply with the following requirements:
				(i)	Advertising shall be placed only on the back side of fixed pedestal units, and only on such units dispensing six or more publications;
				(ii)	Advertising on any individual fixed pedestal unit shall be less than eighteen (18) square feet in area;
				(iii)	No portion of the advertising shall extend above the top edge of the fixed pedestal unit;
				(iv)	Each fixed pedestal unit containing advertising shall have a sign adjacent to such advertising that states in typeface at least one inch high, the following disclaimer: 
ADVERTISING ON THIS NEWSRACK IS NOT CONTROLLED BY, AND MAY NOT REFLECT THE VIEWS OF, ANY OF THE PUBLICATIONS DISTRIBUTED WITHIN.
				(v)	The letters comprising the above disclaimer shall be printed in white reflective lettering against a black disclaimer background. The disclaimer shall be centered above or below any panel containing such advertising. 
		(2)	The permit holder shall comply with the following requirements:
			(A)	In any circumstances where the permit holder decides to vacate a location, the permit holder shall promptly notify the Director and the vendor of the intention to vacate the location; 
			(B)	All coin-operated newsrack boxes shall be equipped with a coin-return device that is maintained in good repair and working order to enable persons to secure full refunds if they are unable to receive the publication paid for. In the case of coin-operated newsrack boxes, the permittee shall be responsible, at its own cost, for the following, unless it timely elects to have the vendor assume such responsibility pursuant to the vendor contract: 
				(i)	For maintenance, repair, and replacement of all hardware related to the charging or coin mechanism or to the security of coins, including all locks and keys; 
				(ii)	For remedying any problem with the functionality of the door of its newsrack box where such remedy requires access to any coin mechanism panel, or access to or repair of any hardware relating to the charging or coin mechanism: and 
				(iii)	For any changes to, or replacement or resetting of, any mechanism necessary to effect a change in the price of a publication distributed from the newsrack box. 
			(C)	Where a vendor contract authorizes any publication to perform or to receive reimbursement from the vendor for any repair, maintenance, or replacement of any part of a fixed pedestal unit, each publication exercising such authority shall comply with all conditions or restrictions on such authority as may be stated in this section, the guidelines, and the vendor contract. Except as otherwise provided in the vendor contract, each publication shall use only vendor-approved parts, cleaning products, and methods to perform any repair, maintenance or replacement of any part of a fixed pedestal unit authorized by that vendor contract. 
			(D)	Except as otherwise authorized by this subsection or the guidelines, and except as authorized pursuant to a vendor contract with respect to advertising panels and names and logos of the vendor and/or any entities with whom it has contracted for services in performance of said contract, no newsrack box shall be used for advertising signs or publicity purposes other than for the advertising, display, sale or distribution of the newspaper(s) or other publication(s) distributed from it. Consistent with the guidelines, each publication may display its name on a specified area on the front of its newsrack boxes, on the side of any fixed pedestal unit in which it has received space in a newsrack box, and on the back of such units, where the backs of such units are not used to display advertising. 
			(E)	Each newsrack box shall display the permit holder's name, street address (Post Office Box numbers will not be allowed), and phone number. 
			(F)	Any permit holder distributing publications containing on the first or cover page material harmful to minors as defined in Section 313 of the California Penal Code, such that the harmful material is visible in the newsrack box, shall equip each newsrack box containing such publications with blinder racks so that the lower two-thirds (2/3) of the first or cover page is not exposed to view. The permit holder shall be responsible for the installation and maintenance of the blinder racks. 
		(3)	The requirements of this subsection are not intended to alter the obligation of any vendor(s) or permit holders to comply, with all other applicable laws. Except as expressly stated otherwise, no provision of this section, the guidelines, or any vendor contract, including those provisions concerning the repair, maintenance, or replacement of any portion of any fixed pedestal unit or newsrack box, is intended to diminish any right or remedy that any party may have relating to damage to its property. 
		(4)	To the extent any provision in a vendor contract requires any vendor to reimburse any publication for the publication's repair, maintenance, or replacement of any portion of a fixed pedestal unit or newsrack box, any publication denied reimbursement required under such provision may only bring suit against the vendor under this section, and only to obtain reimbursement for such repair, maintenance or replacement, but not attorneys' fees in such suit. Nothing contained herein or in the guidelines shall be construed to grant any publication contractual rights under a vendor contract. 
		(5)	To the extent any provision in a vendor contract authorizes or requires the Director to decide any matter concerning a publication's authority to repair, maintain, or replace any portion of a fixed pedestal unit or newsrack box, or to obtain reimbursement from the vendor for such repair, Maintenance, or replacement, (i) the Director's decision concerning such matter shall be the City's final administrative decision, and (ii) any delay by the Director in making such decision or in otherwise complying with his obligations under such provision shall not prejudice any publication's right to the potential reimbursement provided by such provision. 
	(j)	ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS; HEARINGS.
		(1)	Newsracks posing an immediate danger to persons, vehicles or property. The Director is authorized to remove and impound without prior notice any newsrack that poses an immediate danger to persons, vehicles or property. Such removal and impoundment shall be in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures set forth below. 
			(A)	Notice of Violation. Within twenty-four (24) hours after such removal, the Director shall by telephone notify the permit holder or owner of the removal. Within forty-eight (48) hours after removal, the Director shall notify the owner in writing of the removal and the reasons for removal. The notice shall also inform the owner of the right to request, either in writing or in person, within ten (10) business days of the date of the postmark of such written notice, a meeting with the Director to determine whether such removal was prosper. 
			(B)	Meeting and Decision. Upon timely request, the Director shall provide such a Meeting by the close of the next business day following receipt of the request, unless the owner agrees to a later date. The proceeding shall be informal, but oral and written evidence may be offered. The Director shall give his or her decision in writing to the owner within three (3) business days after such meeting. If the Director finds that such impoundment was proper, the Director shall notify the owner that the impounded newsrack may be recovered following payment of a $200.00 administrative penalty pursuant to subsection 184.12(k). The owner of an unauthorized fixed pedestal unit shall also be responsible for restoring the sidewalk to its original condition pursuant to subsection 184.12(f)(1). If the Director finds that the impoundment was improper and/or that placement of the fixed pedestal unit or freestanding newsrack was lawful, the Director shall order the immediate release to the owner and reinstallation by the City at its expense of the fixed pedestal unit or freestanding newsrack without charge. 
			(C)	Disposal of Impounded Newsracks. Unauthorized fixed pedestal units or freestanding newsracks that are not claimed within thirty (30) calendar days of impoundment shall be disposed of in a manner determined by the Director in accordance with state law. 
		(2)	Unauthorized fixed pedestal units and any freestanding newsracks. The Director is authorized to remove and impound any unauthorized fixed pedestal units and any freestanding newsrack located in a Fixed Pedestal Zone in accordance with the following procedures. 
			(A)	Notice of Violation and Impoundment. The Director shall post a notice of violation on the unauthorized fixed pedestal newsrack or freestanding newsrack, and shall use all reasonable efforts to immediately contact the owner of the newsrack or other responsible party by facsimile and telephone where this information is contained on the newsrack or is available from the Director's records. The notice attached to the newsracks, and any written notice transmitted to the owner, shall also inform the owner of the right to request, by facsimile, telephone or in person, by the close of business on the first business day following the date of the notice of violation, a meeting with the Director to determine whether the newsrack is in violation of this section. If the newsrack has not been removed, and the owner has not requested a meeting with the Director by the close of the next business day following the day that the notice of violation has been affixed, the Director may remove and impound the offending newsrack. Within forty-eight (48) hours after removal, the Director shall notify the owner in writing of the removal and the reasons for removal. If the owner did not request a meeting with the Director prior to removal of the newsrack, the notice shall also inform the owner of the right to request, either in writing or in person, within ten (10) business days of the date of the postmark of such written notice, a meeting with the Director to determine whether such removal was proper. 
			(B)	Meeting and Decision. Upon timely request, the Director shall provide such a meeting by the close of the next business day following receipt of the request, unless the owner agrees to a later date. The proceeding shall be informal, but oral and written evidence may be offered. The Director shall give his or her decision in writing to the owner within three (3) business days after such meeting. If no meeting has been requested, and/or the Director finds that the impoundment was proper, the Director shall notify the owner that the impounded newsrack may be recovered following payment of a $200.00 administrative penalty pursuant to subsection 184.12(k). The owner of an unauthorized fixed pedestal unit shall also be responsible for restoring the sidewalk to its original condition pursuant to subsection 184.12(f)(1). If the Director finds that the impoundment was improper and/or that placement of the fixed pedestal unit or freestanding newsrack was lawful, the Director shall order the immediate release to the owner and reinstallation by the City at its expense of the fixed pedestal unit or freestanding newsrack without charge. 
			(C)	Disposal of Impounded Newsracks. Unauthorized fixed pedestal units or freestanding newsracks that are not claimed within thirty (30) calendar days of impoundment shall be disposed of in a manner determined by the Director in accordance with state law. 
		(3)	Other Violations. Any other violation of this section, or the guidelines promulgated under this section, by a permit holder or owner may be cause for disablement of the offending newsrack box(es), subject to the notice and hearing procedures set forth below. 
			(A)	Notice of Violation. Before a newsrack box may be disabled under this subsection, the Director shall notify the permit holder or owner of the violation. The notice shall be in writing and shall state the nature of the violation. The notice shall give the permit holder or owner ten (10) business days from the date the postmark of such written notice to either remedy the violation or request a meeting before the Director. An additional notice shall be affixed to the offending newsrack box. 
			(B)	Meeting and Decision. Upon timely request, the Director shall conduct the meeting within three (3) business days of receiving the request. The meeting shall be informal, but oral and written evidence may be offered. Thereafter, the Director shall give his or her decision in writing to the owner, permit holder or designated agent for notice, within three (3) business days after the meeting. Any action by the City with respect to the alleged violation shall be stayed pending the written decision of the Director following the meeting and resolution of any other appellate or review process initiated by the permit holder. 
			(C)	Disablement of Newsracks. The Director may disable a newsrack box in accordance with this subsection, subject to the resolution of any appellate or review process initiated by the permit holder, following either (1) the written decision of the Director upholding the determination of a violation; or (2) where the permit holder or owner has neither requested a meeting nor remedied the violation within the time periods set forth above. A newsrack box that has been disabled may be recovered by the permit holder upon payment of a $200.00 administrative penalty imposed pursuant to subsection 184.12(k). 
			(D)	Failure to Pay Penalties. Where the permit holder of, other publication authorized to occupy, a newsrack box that has been disabled fails to pay the administrative penalty specified in subparagraph (C) within thirty (30) calendar days, the newsrack box shall be considered as having been vacated, subject to the resolution of any appellate or review process initiated by the permit holder. 
	(k)	ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES; OTHER REMEDIES.
		(1)	Administrative Penalties.
			(A)	Any fixed pedestal permit holder, or the owner of a freestanding newsrack or unauthorized fixed pedestal unit found to have violated any of the provisions of this section pursuant to subsection 184.12(j) shall receive a notice of violation in accordance with subsection 184.12(j)(1), 184.12(j)(2) or 184.12(j)(3). If a newsrack is impounded pursuant to section 184.12(j)(1) or is found to be in violation of this section following expiration of the time periods set forth in section 184.12(j)(2) or (j)(3), the permit holder or owner shall be subject to an administrative penalty of $200.00 per violation. A permit holder shall not be issued any additional permits until all outstanding administrative penalties levied against that permit holder under this subsection, after the expiration of all applicable notice, grace, and cure periods, and subject to resolution of any appellate or review process initiated by the permit holder, have been paid. 
			(B)	The Director is responsible for charging and collecting any penalty or fee assessed pursuant to this subsection. The Director shall notify in writing the person or publication responsible for the violation of the cost of the penalty and declare that such costs are due and payable to the Treasurer of the City and County of San Francisco. 
			(C)	Any person or publication who has been assessed administrative penalties may seek administrative review of such penalties and fees by filing an appeal with the Director that specifies in detail the basis or appeal. Within ten (10) days of the receipt of the appeal, unless extended by mutual agreement of the affected parties, the Director shall cause a hearing to be held before an impartial hearing officer. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final. 
		(2)	Deposit of Penalties. Any administrative penalty received by the Treasurer of the City and County of San Francisco in accordance with the requirements of this subsection shall be paid into the Department of Public Works' Engineering and Inspection Fund, and shall be used only for the costs of administering and enforcing the requirements of this section and the guidelines promulgated under this section. 
		(3)	Permit Suspension. Failure to pay any administrative penalties imposed pursuant to this subsection, or repeated refusal, following a minimum of three (3) written notices within thirty (30) days from the Director, to maintain newsrack boxes in compliance with this subsection and the Director's guidelines shall, after notice of the violation, and the expiration of all applicable notice, grace, and cure periods, and subject to resolution of any appellate or review process initiated by the permit holder, be cause for suspension of all of the permit holder's fixed pedestal permits in the Fixed Pedestal Zone containing the subject newsrack box(es) for a period not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days. 
		(4)	Other Remedies. The provisions of this section shall not limit any other remedies authorized by law. 
	(l)	IMPLEMENTATION AND APPLICATION TO EXISTING NEWSRACKS. The Director is instructed to promptly phase in the implementation of this section in consultation with the Newsrack Advisory Committee. In order to accomplish this purpose, the Director is authorized to establish implementation areas within fixed pedestal zones and to establish dates by which all fixed pedestal units in the implementation areas shall be in compliance with the requirements of this subsection, and by which all freestanding newsracks and unauthorized fixed pedestal units shall be removed. The deadlines for compliance with this section and the Director's guidelines shall be prominently posted in the implementation areas not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date for initial implementation specified in the guidelines. Publications shall have ninety (90) days from the initial date specified in the guidelines to come into compliance with the provisions of this section and the guidelines promulgated under this section. Deadlines for compliance with these requirements shall be published in the City's official newspaper. 
	(m)	APPEALS.
		(1)	(A)	Unless otherwise provided herein or in the guidelines, any person other than a vendor who is aggrieved by and seeks review of a determination made by the Director pursuant to subsections 184.12(e)-(k), inclusive of this section must file with the Director a written request for review of the Director's decision by the Newsrack Advisory Committee. Such a request must be delivered to the Director not more than ten (10) business days following the issuance of the Director's decision. The Newsrack Advisory Committee shall consider the request at its next regularly-scheduled meeting, or at a special meeting held or this purpose before the next regularly-scheduled meeting, if the next regularly-scheduled meeting is not going to be held within ten (10) business days of the Director's receipt of the request, consistent with public meeting law requirements. At the meeting, the Newsrack Advisory Committee shall vote either to affirm or dissent from the Director's decision. The Newsrack Advisory Committee's vote shall be provided to the Director within two (2) business days. The Director shall have three (3) additional business days to render a final decision affirming or reversing his or her original determination. Such decision shall explain the Director's determination, including the facts relied on in the determination, with citations to any provisions of this Section and the guidelines upon which the Director relies. 
			(B)	Review by the Newsrack Advisory Committee pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be optional, at the election of the person aggrieved by the Director's determination. The election of such review shall not detract from any right of judicial review that may be available under applicable law, provided that if the person aggrieved by the Director's determination elects review by the Newsrack Advisory Committee, then that person waives any claim that the City did not provide him, her or it with a prompt administrative appeal or prompt judicial review during the period the matter is under review pursuant to subparagraph (A). If the person aggrieved by the Director's determination does not elect review by the Newsrack Advisory Committee, the Director's original determination shall constitute the Director's final decision. 
		(2)	Following a final decision of the Director pursuant to subparagraph (1), any person other than a vendor who is aggrieved by a determination made by the Director granting, denying or revoking a permit pursuant to subsection 184.12(e) may file an appeal with the Board of Appeals in accordance with Part III, Section 8 et seq. of the San Francisco Municipal Code. The Board of Appeals shall set the hearing on the appeal not less than fifteen (15) days after the filing of the appeal, shall act on the appeal not more than thirty (30) days after such filing, and shall not entertain a motion for rehearing. These time limits may be extended by stipulation of the parties or order of the Board on good cause shown. 
		(3)	The Board of Appeals shall determine whether the action taken by the Director was proper solely based on the provisions of this section and the Director's guidelines. If the determination of the Board differs from that of the Director, the Board shall, in a written decision, specify wherein there was error in interpretation of this section or the guidelines promulgated under this section, or abuse of discretion on the part of the Director, and shall specify in its findings, as part of such written decision, the facts relied upon in arriving at its determination. The determination of the Board shall be final and conclusive. 
		(4)	Any party to the appeal to the Board of Appeals who is aggrieved by the determination of the Board may seek judicial review of the Board's final decision in the Superior Court of California, County of San Francisco, by filing a petition for a writ of mandamus under Sections 1085 and/or 1094.5 of the California Code of Civil Procedure, as appropriate. The petition shall be heard and decided in accordance with all applicable statutes and rules, including Section 1094.8 of the Code of Civil Procedure and San Francisco Superior Court Uniform Local Rules of Court, Rule 8.16, revised July 1, 1999, both of which provide for expedited judicial review of the denial of a permit for an activity protected by the First Amendment. Pursuant to Section 1094.8(c) of the Code of Civil Procedure, the City hereby designates fixed pedestal permits as eligible for expedited judicial review pursuant to Section 1094.8. 
	(n)	NOTICE PROCEDURES.
		(1)	All notices, consents, demands and other communications required or permitted to be given under this section shall be effective only if rendered or given in writing unless otherwise specified in this section, and shall be delivered either by (i) registered or certified mail; (ii) expedited messenger service; (iii) personal delivery to an authorized representative; (iv) facsimile; (v) electronic mail sent to an electronic mail address that the intended recipient has provided to the Director for that purpose; or (vi) air courier addressed to the party or parties for whom intended at the addresses set forth in the party's applications or such other address as the intended recipient shall have designated in writing to the Director from time to time (provided, however, notice of change of address or facsimile number shall be effective only upon receipt). 
		(2)	Notice to the City or the Director shall be addressed to the address specified for this purpose in the guidelines.
		(3)	All notices and other communications shall be deemed to have been rendered or given (i) if sent by registered or certified mail, on the date it is officially recorded as delivered to the intended recipient by return receipt or equivalent, and in the absence of such record of delivery, the effective date shall be presumed to have beefs on the fifth business day after the date when it shall have been deposited in the mail; (ii) if sent by expedited messenger service, on the date it is officially recorded by the messenger service carrier as delivered to the intended recipient; (iii) if personally delivered, upon receipt by an authorized representative; (iv) if by facsimile, one (1) hour after its transmission, if such time is during the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. in the place of its receipt or, if it is not, on the opening of business on the succeeding business day in place of the receipt, subject to having in fact been received in legible form; (v) if sent by electronic mail, one (1) hour after its transmission, if such time is during the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on a business day in the place of its receipt or, if it is not, on the opening of business on the succeeding business day in the place of the receipt; and (vi) if sent by air courier, one (1) business day after delivery to an air courier for overnight expedited delivery. 
	(o)	NATURE OF DIRECTOR'S DUTIES. It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors that the duties imposed upon the Director of Public Works by this section be directory in nature, and that as a result, the Director's failure to comply with a particular procedural step shall not invalidate any subsequent action by the Director to which the procedural requirement relates. 
	(p)	LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. By adopting this section, the City and County of San Francisco is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. This subsection shall not affect any rights that may be available under a vendor contract and shall not create any such rights. 
	(q)	SEVERABILITY. If any provision, subdivision, paragraph, phrase or clause of this section or the application of this section is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this section. The Board of Supervisors declares that it would have passed each section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this section irrespective of the fact that any portion of this section could be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. This subsection shall not affect the terms of any vendor contract or the rights or obligations of any party to such a contract under such a contract. 
(Added by Ord. 75-02, File No. 020465, App. 5/17/2002) (Former Sec. 184.12 added by Ord. 190-98, App. 6/12/98; amended by Ord. 234-99, File No. 991317, App. 8/23/99; repealed by Ord. 75-02; Ord. 100-07, File No. 070264, App. 5/4/2007; Ord. 144-08, File No. 080765, App. 7/30/2008; Ord. 319-10, File No. 101310, App. 12/21/2010)   
ARTICLE 5.5:
DISTRIBUTION OF FREE SAMPLE MERCHANDISE
ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
Sec. 184.50.Authority to Issue Permits.Sec. 184.51.Permit Requirement.Sec. 184.52.Permit: Application, Fee, Term.Sec. 184.53.Performance Bond and Waiver Provision.Sec. 184.54.Violation and Misdemeanor.Sec. 184.55.Denial of Permit.
SEC. 184.50.  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PERMITS.
	The Director of Public Works or his designee is hereby authorized and empowered to issue permits for the distribution of free merchandise or free sample goods for the purpose of advertising any merchandise, commodity, property, trade, business, service, art or skill, on any street, sidewalk or public right-of-way in the City and County of San Francisco. In determining the issuance of such permits, the Director of Public Works or his designee shall consider the convenience and necessity of pedestrians, property owners, occupants, tenants or of offices, stores or shops in the vicinity, the dimensions of the public property area, location of nearby fire hydrants and similar factors. 
(Added by Ord. 497-85, App. 11/15/85)
SEC. 184.51.  PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
	It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation, directly or indirectly, upon any street, sidewalk or public right-of-way in the City and County of San Francisco to cast, throw, deposit, place, post, affix, circulate or distribute, or to cause to be so cast, thrown, deposited, placed, posted, affixed, circulated or distributed any free merchandise or free sample goods for the purpose of advertising any merchandise, commodity, property, trade, business, service, art or skill, without first having obtained a permit therefor from the Director of Public Works or his designee. 
(Added by Ord. 497-85, App. 11/15/85)
SEC. 184.52.  PERMIT: APPLICATION, FEE, TERM.
	(a)	Permit Application. Application to the Director of Public Works for a permit to distribute free merchandise or free sample goods as herein provided shall be made on a form provided by the Department of Public Works and shall contain the following information: 
		(1)	The name and address of the applicant;
		(2)	The name or names of the applicant's employees or agents who will distribute the free merchandise or free sample goods;
		(3)	The location or locations where the applicant or his employees or agents will distribute the free merchandise or free sample goods; 
		(4)	The date or dates upon which the applicant or his employees or agents will distribute the free merchandise or free sample goods; 
		(5)	The hour or hours during which the applicant or his employees or agents will distribute the free merchandise or free sample goods. 
	(b)	Permit Fee. Each application for a permit pursuant to this Article must be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount of $100 per day payable to the Department of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco. Said fee shall compensate the Department for the cost of processing the application and the cost of inspecting the property at the termination of the permitted activity to ensure that the property has been restored to its original condition. 
	(c)	Permit Term. Permits issued pursuant to this Section shall expire at the end of the last date on which the applicant indicated on the permit application that it would distribute the free merchandise or free sample goods, but in any event the permit shall expire no more than 30 days after the date of issuance. 
(Added by Ord. 497-85, App. 11/15/85; amended by Ord. 401-87, App. 9/25/87; Ord. 255-92, App. 8/7/92)
SEC. 184.53.  PERFORMANCE BOND AND WAIVER PROVISION.
	(a)	Performance Bond.
		(1)	Upon submitting the application, each applicant for a permit pursuant to this Article shall post a performance bond with the Director of Public Works or his designee to insure that public property is restored and cleaned of litter at the conclusion of the permitted activity. Said performance bond shall be in the form of a cashier's check payable to the Department of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco in the amount of $500. At the termination of the permitted activity the Department of Public Works shall refund the amount of the performance bond to the applicant as soon as the public property has been restored to its original condition to the satisfaction of the Director of the Department of Public Works or his designee. In no case shall the performance bond be returned before the property is restored to its original condition. 
		(2)	The applicant may submit a performance bond for a lesser amount upon a determination by the Director of the Department of Public Works or his designee that because of the limited duration of the proposed activity the cost of restoring the public property to its original condition will total less than $500. 
		(3)	The Director of Public Works or his designee may require the permit applicant to post a performance bond for a greater amount upon determination by the Director of Public Works or his designee that because of the nature and duration of the proposed activity the cost of restoring the public property to its original condition will total more than $500. Prior to requiring a performance bond for an amount greater than $500, the Director of the Department of Public Works shall adopt guidelines for the Department to follow in determining the circumstances under which the restoration costs will exceed $500. 
	(b)	Waiver Provision. The Director of Public Works or his designee shall waive the performance bond requirement if the applicant certifies in writing that (1) the purpose of the activity is First Amendment expression and (2) the cost of the performance bond is so financially burdensome that it would constitute an unreasonable prior restraint on the right of First Amendment expression. 
(Added by Ord. 497-85, App. 11/15/85)
SEC. 184.54.  VIOLATION AND MISDEMEANOR.
	Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the provisions of this Article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 
(Added by Ord. 497-85, App. 11/15/85)
SEC. 184.55.  DENIAL OF PERMIT.
	Upon the denial of a permit by the Director of Public Works or his designee, an applicant may file a notice of appeal to the Board of Permit Appeals. 
(Added by Ord. 497-85, App. 11/15/85)
ARTICLE 5.6:
POSTING OF SIGNS ON CITY-OWNED LAMP POSTS OR UTILITY POLES
Sec. 184.56.Definitions.Sec. 184.57.Signs on Public Property Prohibited; Exceptions.Sec. 184.58.Historic and Decorative Lamp Posts.Sec. 184.59.Prior Registration.Sec. 184.59.Registration Required.Sec. 184.60.Prohibition on Damage.Sec. 184.61.Prohibited Signs a Public Nuisance; Removal of Signs Posted in Compliance with Article.Sec. 184.62.Criminal Penalty.Sec. 184.63.Civil and Administrative Penalties.Sec. 184.64.Departmental Authority to Remove; Billing Procedure.Sec. 184.65.Identification of Persons Responsible for Posting of Signs.Sec. 184.66.Publication of Notice.Sec. 184.67.Authority to Make Rules, Etc.Sec. 184.68.Severability.
SEC. 184.56.  DEFINITIONS.
	For the purposes of this Article: 
	(a)	"Alley" means (1) a Street having a roadway not exceeding 25 feet in width which is primarily used for access to the rear or side entrances of abutting property or (2) any Street designated by ordinance or resolution of the Board of Supervisors as "alley." 
	(b)	"Board" means the Board of Supervisors of the City.
	(c)	"City" means the City and County of San Francisco.
	(d)	"Commercial Street" means that portion of a Street and the adjacent sidewalk within one block of which 50 percent or more of front footage of private property on the ground floor of the Street is used for a Commercial purpose. One block shall be measured from Street intersection to Street intersection, but shall not include any Alley intersection. 
	(e)	"Department" means the Department of Public Works of the City.
	(f)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of Public Works of the City. Director shall mean and include an officer or employee of the City designated to act on the Director's behalf. 
	(g)	"Emergency" means an unforeseen occurrence or combination of circumstances which calls for an immediate action or remedy.
	(h)	"Lamp Post" means a post which supports or has attached to it an electric lamp or lantern, but shall not include a post to which a traffic control sign or signal is attached. 
	(i)	"Non-Commercial Street" means that portion of a Street and the adjacent sidewalk within one block of which not more than 50 percent of front footage of private property on the ground floor of the Street is used for a Commercial purpose. One block shall be measured from Street intersection to Street intersection, but shall not include any Alley intersection. Property owned or occupied by the City, the State of California, or the United States Government and used for a government purpose shall be deemed Non-Commercial property for the purpose of this Article only. Property located on the same side of the street and adjacent to property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Recreation and Park shall be deemed Non-Commercial property for the purpose of this Article only. 
	(j)	"Person" means any individual person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, organization, society, group or legal entity of any kind. 
	(k)	"Posting Date" means the date on which a Person intends to post a Sign. In no event shall the date be later than the date on which the Sign is actually posted. 
	(l)	"Roadway" means that portion of a Street improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
	(m)	"Sign" means any card, decoration, poster, campaign sign, poster or any object containing or bearing writing, drawing, painting, figures, designs or symbols that is affixed, posted or fastened in any manner to any property that is permanently attached to the public right-of-way. A Sign shall not include a Handbill, as that term is defined and regulated by Sections 184.69 to 184.76, inclusive, of this Code. A Sign shall also not include a banner which is regulated in Section 184.78 of this Code. A Sign shall also not include an A-board which is regulated in Sections 63 and 64 of Part II, Chapter VIII of the San Francisco Municipal Code (Police Code). 
	(n)	"Street" means a way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel, or property dedicated as a public street by action of the Board of Supervisors. 
	(o)	"Utility Pole" means a pole which carries or has attached to it a wire or wires used in connection with the Municipal Railway or telephone or electric lines, but shall not include any traffic control signal or sign. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006)
SEC. 184.57.  SIGNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
	(a)	Findings. The Board hereby finds and declares: The City has a compelling need to prohibit the posting of Signs on public property in order to prevent the visual pollution caused by such Signs and the resulting contributions to urban blight. Moreover, the placement of Signs on public property causes damage to such property and, when Signs are placed on or near traffic or directional signs or similar objects, threatens the safety of vehicular and pedestrian traffic. The rise in number, size and frequency of Signs on public property has increased visual clutter, risks to the vehicular and pedestrian traffic and damage to public property. This proliferation of Signs on public property also threatens the character and dignity of the City's distinctive appearance, streetscapes, thoroughfares, skyline and architectural features for both residents and visitors and also depletes limited public resources for street cleaning and maintenance. However, the Board is mindful of the importance of providing a forum for communication among citizens. While Lamp Posts and Utility Poles can provide such a forum, unrestricted use of Signs would interfere with the clear view of traffic safety signs and signals by motorists and with the unobstructed use of public streets and sidewalks. In addition, unrestricted use of Lamp Posts and Utility Poles would permit the placement of numerous Signs of widely ranging sizes and shapes which protrude beyond such poles, thereby creating an aesthetically displeasing clutter of objects on and over public streets and sidewalks. A limitation on the size, duration, and placement of Signs on Lamp Posts and Utility Poles will eliminate unsightly clutter, ensure traffic safety, and provide an opportunity for a greater number of Persons to communicate by this means. 
	(b)	Prohibited Acts. Except as expressly provided in this Article, no Person, except a duly authorized public officer or employee, or a contractor with the City, the State of California, or the United States Government acting to promote the purposes of that contract, shall erect, construct or maintain, paste, paint, print, nail, tack or otherwise fasten or affix any Sign, or cause or suffer the same to be done, on any Lamp Post, Utility Pole, traffic control sign or signal, curbstone, bench, hydrant, wall, span wire, sidewalk, bridge, tree, fence, building or structure owned or controlled by the City. 
	(c)	Exceptions for Non-Commercial Streets. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (b) of this Section, a Sign may be placed or maintained upon, or attached to, any Lamp Post or Utility Pole on a Non-Commercial Street provided that the following regulations are adhered to: 
		(1)	No more than one copy of any Sign (i.e. no duplicates) may be placed on a single Lamp Post or a single Utility Pole at any time; 
		(2)	The Sign shall be affixed to the Lamp Post or Utility Pole so that the shape of the Sign conforms to the shape of the Lamp Post or Utility Pole to which it is attached, and no part shall extend or be suspended beyond the face of the Lamp Post or Utility Pole; 
		(3)	The Sign shall not be greater than 11 inches in height;
		(4)	The edge of the Sign which is farthest from the ground when posted shall be at a height no greater than 12 feet from the ground;
		(5)	The Sign shall only be affixed with tape or non-adhesive materials, such as string, twine or other non-metal banding material. The Sign shall not be affixed with staples, nails, paste, glue, or any adhesive substance other than tape, nor affixed in a manner that causes damage to the Lamp Post, Utility Pole, any structure, or any public property. The Sign shall be posted in a fashion that ensures it is firmly secured to the Lamp Post or Utility Pole, is not loose, and does not pose any hazard to pedestrians or vehicles; 
		(6)	The Sign shall bear the Posting Date in the lower right-hand corner, legible and visible after the Sign is posted.
	(d)	Exceptions for Commercial Streets. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (b) of this Section, a Sign may be placed or maintained upon, or attached to, any Lamp Post or Utility Pole on a Commercial Street, provided that a Sign which is 11 inches in height or less must be posted in accordance with Section 184.57(c). 
	(e)	Posting Period. Every Person who has posted any Sign on any Lamp Post or Utility Pole, or who has caused such posting, as permitted by Subsections (c) and (d) of this Section, shall remove such Sign and any material used to affix the Sign within 70 calendar days of the Posting Date. Provided, however, in no event shall any Sign posted for an event or an election remain posted more than 10 calendar days after the event or the election. 
	(f)	Exclusions. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to: 
		(1)	Signs placed or maintained by the United States Government, the State of California, any department of the City, or Signs posted under the authority of the San Francisco Department of Recreation and Park, the San Francisco Port Commission, or the Department; 
		(2)	Any object placed or maintained upon, or in front of, or attached to, or above any building or premises, either wholly within the property lines or projecting beyond the property line over the public sidewalk, regulated by the provisions of Part II, Chapter I of the San Francisco Municipal Code (Building Code); 
		(3)	Any object affixed pursuant to Part II, Chapter IV of the San Francisco Municipal Code (Planning Code);
		(4)	Any object placed on a Street or sidewalk pursuant to Section 63 of Part II, Chapter VIII of the San Francisco Municipal Code (Police Code) regulating the placement of A-boards; 
		(5)	Any object placed on a Lamp Post or Utility Pole pursuant to Section 184.78 of this Code regulating the display of banners;
		(6)	Any object distributed pursuant to Sections 184.69 to 184.76, inclusive, of this Code regulating the distribution of Handbills;
		(7)	The distribution of newspapers and other printed material from newsracks or pedestal mounts on public sidewalks;
		(8)	Signs posted on kiosks or pedestal mounts designed and maintained for the posting of Signs.
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006)
SEC. 184.58.  HISTORIC AND DECORATIVE LAMP POSTS.
	(a)	Findings. The Board finds and declares that several Lamp Posts throughout the City are historic landmarks, are within historic districts, or are important aesthetic features of the City. Because of the historic and aesthetic significance of these Lamp Posts, the interest in maintaining a City which is attractive to its citizens and tourists, and promoting the health, safety, and welfare of the City's citizens, these Lamp Posts must be preserved and protected from destruction. The use of these ornate poles for the purpose of posting Signs may either threaten the preservation of these landmarks or destroy an important aesthetic feature of the city. 
	Accordingly, the City has a compelling need to prohibit the posting of Signs on the following Lamp Posts: 
		(1)	"Market Street's Path of Gold" located from 1 Market Street to 2490 Market Street. The pillars of these 33-foot high Lamp Posts were shaped to include historical subjects as decoration, including Native Americans on horseback and ox-drawn covered wagons pictured with a pioneer; 
		(2)	"Mission Street Corridor" located on Mission Street between Sixteenth and Twenty-Fourth Streets. These Lamp Posts are maroon-painted with acorn-shaped luminaries, finial tops and twin lights at different heights; 
		(3)	"Dragon Street Lanterns" located on Grant Street between Bush and Broadway Streets. These red-painted Chinese-style lanterns sit atop pillars which are ornately decorated with bronze dragons and painted aqua; the bases are painted red and white; 
		(4)	Lamp Posts on the "Embarcadero" located between King and Jefferson Streets. There are three styles of Lamp Posts on the Embarcadero having decorative bases, painted green or slate blue, and with double tear-dropped-shaped lanterns and both double and single acorn-shaped lanterns; 
		(5)	Lamp Posts on Fisherman's Wharf located between Hyde and Powell Streets. These Lamp Posts are painted slate blue, have decorative bases and single acorn-shaped lanterns; 
		(6)	Lamp Posts adjacent to the Moscone Center on Howard Street between Third and Fourth Streets. These 10 Lamp Posts are bronze cobra-shaped light fixtures designed by JCDecaux Co., a French designer of street furniture and fixtures; 
		(7)	Lamp Posts in Union Square Plaza, which is bounded by Geary Street to the south, Stockton Street to the east, Post Street to the north, and Powell Street to the west. These Lamp Posts are painted slate blue, have decorative bases and single acorn-shaped lanterns; 
		(8)	Lamp Posts located on Mason Street from Market to Sutter Streets, Sutter from Mason to Kearny Streets, Kearny Street from Bush to Market Streets. These Lamp Posts are painted gray, have gold trim, and ornately decorative bases and double acorn-shaped lanterns. 
	(b)	Posting Signs Prohibited. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Person, except a duly authorized public officer or employee or contractor with the City, the State of California, or the United States Government acting to promote the purposes of that contract, shall erect, construct or maintain, paste, paint, print, nail, tack or otherwise fasten or affix, any Sign, or cause or suffer the same to be done, on any of the following Lamp Posts: 
		(1)	"Market Street's Path of Gold" located from 1 Market Street to 2490 Market Street;
		(2)	"Mission Street Corridor" located on Mission Street between Sixteenth and Twenty-Fourth Streets;
		(3)	"Dragon Street Lanterns" located on Grant Street between Bush and Broadway Streets;
		(4)	Lamp Posts on the "Embarcadero" located between King and Jefferson Streets;
		(5)	Lamp Posts on Fisherman's Wharf located between Hyde and Powell Streets;
		(6)	Lamp Posts adjacent to the Moscone Center on Howard Street between Third and Fourth Streets;
		(7)	Lamp Posts in Union Square Plaza, which is bounded by Geary Street to the south, Stockton Street to the east, Post Street to the north, and Powell Street to the west; and 
		(8)	Lamp Posts located on Mason Street from Market to Sutter Streets, Sutter from Mason to Kearny Streets, Kearny Street from Bush to Market Streets. 
	(c)	The Director shall maintain a complete and accurate list and map indicating the historic Lamp Posts covered by this Section and shall provide a copy of each upon request. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006)
SEC. 184.59.  PRIOR REGISTRATION.
	(a)	It shall be unlawful for any Person to post or cause to be posted any Sign which is greater than 11 inches in height on any Lamp Post or Utility Pole on a Commercial Street in the City. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, Signs in Commercial Streets that received registration numbers prior to the effective date of this Ordinance under Section 184.59(b)-(g) of Ordinance No. 116-99 shall be permitted for the Posting Period provided in Section 184.57(e). 
	(b)	Confidentiality. In order to protect the anonymity of speakers, the Director shall protect the confidentiality of all information provided in any application for permission to post Signs pursuant to Section 184.59(b)-(g) of Ordinance No. 116-99. The Director and his or her staff may use that information only for the purpose of enforcing this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006)
SEC. 184.60.  PROHIBITION ON DAMAGE.
	No Person shall deface, mar, disfigure, or damage any traffic control sign or signal, curbstone, bench, hydrant, wall, span wire, sidewalk, bridge, fence, building or any other structure belonging to the City or any tree located in any public property or place, by painting, cutting, scratching or breaking the same, or attaching, posting, or in any way affixing anything thereto. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006)
SEC. 184.61.  PROHIBITED SIGNS A PUBLIC NUISANCE; REMOVAL OF SIGNS POSTED IN COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE.
	Any Sign affixed to any property in violation of the provisions of this Article is hereby declared to be and is a public nuisance. No Sign posted in compliance with this Article may be removed by any Person except an officer or employee of the City duly authorized to do so or the Person who posted or caused to be posted the Sign. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006)
SEC. 184.62.  CRIMINAL PENALTY.
	Any Person who violates any of the provisions of this Article shall be guilty of an infraction, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 or more than $500.00 or by community service in lieu of the fine. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; amended by Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006; Ord. 74-11, File No. 110280, App. 5/5/2011, Eff. 6/4/2011)
SEC. 184.63.  CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
	(a)	Any Person in violation of any provision of this Article and of failing to pay the amount billed such Person for such violation shall be liable for payment of a civil penalty in an amount equal to (1) the costs incurred by the City occasioned by the failure to remove Signs and by damaged property occasioned by their posting or removal, and (2) the costs to the City incurred in obtaining imposition of such civil penalties through litigation, including the cost of paying City employees or other persons to engage in the litigation, and (3) an additional amount equal to 50 percent of the total of (1) and (2) of this Subsection. 
	(b)	In addition to any other remedies that may be available, a violation of this Article may be punishable by an administrative fine, which may be assessed by an administrative citation issued by Department of Public Works officials designated in Section 38 of the Police Code. Administrative Code Chapter 100, "Procedures Governing the Imposition of Administrative Fines," as may be amended from time to time, is hereby incorporated and shall govern the procedure for the imposition, enforcement, collection, and administrative review of administrative citations issued to enforce this Article, except that the amount of the administrative fine shall be $100 for a first violation of any section of this Article, $200 for a second violation of such section within one year of the first violation, and $500 for each additional violation of such section within one year of the first violation.
	(c)	All monies received by the City in payment of civil penalties or administrative fines for violation of this Article shall be deposited to the credit of the Bureau of Street Environmental Services of the Department of Public Works in a special fund, to be entitled "Sign Removal Fund." Revenue from such fund shall be used exclusively for the costs related to the removal of illegally posted Signs and repair of City property damaged by such posting. Balances remaining in the fund at the close of any fiscal year shall have been deemed to have been provided for a specific purpose within the meaning of Section 9.113 of the Charter, and shall be carried forward and accumulated in said fund for the purposes recited herein. The monies received into this fund are hereby appropriated exclusively for the purposes set forth herein. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; amended by Ord. 87-03, File No. 030482, App. 5/9/2003; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006; Ord. 74-11, File No. 110280, App. 5/5/2011, Eff. 6/4/2011) 
SEC. 184.64.  DEPARTMENTAL AUTHORITY TO REMOVE; BILLING PROCEDURE.
	(a)	The Department has authority to remove any Sign if it violates any provision of this Article. To the extent consistent with applicable federal and state law, the Department may remove any Sign posted in violation of the applicable provisions of federal or state law where the Sign is posted on a Lamp Post or Utility Pole on, immediately abutting, or immediately adjacent to property which is under the jurisdiction of the United States Government or the State of California and is located within the City. The Department is authorized to take all necessary steps, including entering into contracts with the United States Government or the State of California, to remove Signs posted on a Lamp Post or Utility Pole on, immediately abutting, or immediately adjacent to property which is under the jurisdiction of the United States Government or the State of California and is located within the City. If the City incurs any expense in removing a Sign because it was posted in violation of this Article, the Person or Persons responsible for such posting as set forth in Section 184.65 of this Article may be billed as provided in Subsection (b) of this Section. If such bill is not paid as required by Subsection (b), the Person or Persons responsible for such posting are subject to payment of a civil penalty as provided in Section 184.63 of this Article. 
	(b)	Whenever an officer or employee of the City and County of San Francisco removes any Sign posted in violation of this Article, the Director may send a bill to the Person responsible for such posting for the cost of removal or for the repair of property damaged by such posting. Such bill shall include all costs, both direct and indirect, involved in removing Signs, in repairing property, and in administering the billing procedure. The amount to be billed for placing objects into the surface of trees is set forth in the San Francisco Urban Forestry Ordinance, which is codified as Part II, Chapter X, Article 16, Section 800 et seq. of the San Francisco Municipal Code (Public Works). The bill shall describe the basis for the amount billed by indicating the number of signs posted illegally, the time necessary for removal, the hourly cost of removal, and other relevant information, including, but not limited to, the general locations from which the signs were removed and the dates and times on which the work was performed. The bill shall also specify a date by which the bill is to be paid, which date shall be not fewer than 10 business days after the bill is mailed. The person billed must pay the bill by the date specified. All payments received shall be deposited with the Treasurer to the credit of the "Sign Removal Fund" designated in Section 184.63 of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006)
SEC. 184.65.  IDENTIFICATION OF PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR POSTING OF SIGNS.
	In any civil action seeking recovery of a civil penalty and/or costs of removal of a Sign for violation of any of the provisions of this Article, and in the issuance and administrative review of administrative citation(s) issued for the posting of a Sign in violation of any of the provisions of this Article, the City at all times shall have the burden of proving that the Person against whom such civil action is brought, or to whom such administrative citation(s) is or are issued, posted or caused the posting of the Sign. In any such civil action, and in the issuance and/or administrative review of any such administrative citation(s), where the Sign at issue does no more than propose a commercial transaction, proof that the Sign posted contains the name of or in any other manner identifies a Person may be used as evidence to show, and may, depending on all relevant circumstances as evaluated by the trier of fact, enable the trier of fact to infer, that the Person caused such Signs to be posted or to remain posted.
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; amended by Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006; Ord. 74-11, File No. 110280, App. 5/5/2011, Eff. 6/4/2011)
SEC. 184.66.  PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
	The Director shall publish a copy of this Article once in one or more newspapers of general circulation, post a copy of the Article on a bulletin board in or adjacent to the City Hall for a period of 90 calendar days after its passage, and prominently provide notice of this Article in any material made available to the public regarding the City's regulations of Signs. Further, the Director of Elections shall inform any Person who qualifies to be a candidate for a local office of this Article and shall make information about this Ordinance available to all other candidates and proponents of ballot measures. 
	The notice requirements of this Section are intended to enhance community awareness of the City's regulations of Signs. However, the notice requirements shall be given only directive effect. Accordingly, the failure of the Director or the Director of Elections to provide the notice required by this Section shall not be a defense in any criminal proceeding or civil action brought to enforce the provisions of this Article nor shall such failure relieve any Person of criminal or civil liability for postings that violate this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006)
SEC. 184.67.  AUTHORITY TO MAKE RULES, ETC.
	The Director is empowered to adopt rules, regulations, and interpretations of this Ordinance as he or she may deem necessary and proper to interpret and administer the provisions of this Article provided that the rules, regulations, and interpretations shall not be inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006)
SEC. 184.68.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any of the provisions of this Article or the application thereof to any Person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this Code, including the application of such part or provisions to Persons or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect. To this end, the provisions of this Article are severable. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; Ord. 222-06, File No. 060853, App. 8/11/2006)
ARTICLE 5.7:
HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION ON PRIVATE PREMISES; DISPLAY OF BANNERS
Sec. 184.69.Definitions.Sec. 184.70.Distribution of Handbills on Private Premises.Sec. 184.71.Exclusions.Sec. 184.72.Criminal Penalties.Sec. 184.73.Investigation by Director.Sec. 184.74.Publication of Notice.Sec. 184.75.Authority to Make Rules, Etc.Sec. 184.76.Severability.Sec. 184.78.Banners.
SEC. 184.69.  DEFINITIONS.
	For the purposes of this Article: 
	(a)	"Board" means the Board of Supervisors of the City.
	(b)	"City" means the City and County of San Francisco.
	(c)	"Department" means the Department of Public Works of the City.
	(d)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of Public Works of the City. Director shall mean and include an officer or employee of the City designated to act on the Director's behalf. 
	(e)	"Handbill" means any handbill, dodger, circular, booklet, card, pamphlet, sheet or any other kind of printed matter or literature which is distributed to or upon any premises in the City. Handbill shall not include a Sign, as that term is defined and regulated by Sections 184.56 to 184.68, inclusive, of this Code. 
	(f)	"Newspaper" means a publication that (1) is printed, published, and circulated at regular intervals, including, but not limited to, daily, weekly, bi-weekly, and monthly circulation, (2) contains at least 3 separate sheets of paper, and (3) has printed matter on at least one side of the paper. 
	(g)	"Person" means any individual person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, organization, society, group or legal entity of any kind. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99)
SEC. 184.70.  DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS ON PRIVATE PREMISES.
	(a)	Findings. The Board hereby finds and declares that the City has a compelling need to prohibit the distribution of Handbills on private premises where the occupant has expressed his or her unwillingness to receive such Handbills. Prohibiting distributions of Handbills in defiance of an occupant's expressed desire not to receive them strikes an appropriate accommodation between the rights of distributors to solicit willing listeners with the rights of occupants to object to receive the material. 
	This Ordinance is also aimed at decreasing the adverse effects of the distribution of unsolicited Hand-bills on private premises. The prohibition against delivering Handbills contrary to the expressed desire of the occupant and the requirement that Handbills be folded or otherwise attached to the outside of a premises will decrease the amount of litter created by Handbills. 
	(b)	Prohibition When "No Handbills" Sign Posted. It shall be unlawful for any Person to distribute, cause to be distributed, or suffer, allow or permit the distribution of any Handbill to or upon any private premises in the City by placing or causing any such Handbill to be deposited or placed in or upon any porch, yard, steps, hallway, or mailbox located on, or used in connection with such premises when such premises has posted thereon in a conspicuous place, a notice or notices of at least eight square inches in area bearing the words "No Handbills" or the like, unless such Person has first received the written permission of the occupant of such premises authorizing the Person so to distribute. 
	(c)	Distributed Matter To Be Folded. It shall be unlawful for any Person to distribute, cause to be distributed, or suffer, allow or permit the distribution of any Handbill to or upon any private premises in the City by placing or causing any such Handbill to be deposited or placed in or upon any porch, yard, steps, hallway, or mailbox located on, or used in connection with such premises unless the same is folded or otherwise so prepared or placed that it will not be blown therefrom by the winds. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; amended by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005)
SEC. 184.71.  EXCLUSIONS.
	The provisions of this Article shall not apply to: (1) the distribution and delivery of any Newspaper, or (2) any distribution or delivery made by a duly authorized public officer or employee of or contractor acting with the authority of the City, the State of California, or the United States acting to promote the purpose of the contract. 
(Added as Sec. 184.72 by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
(Former Sec. 184.71 added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; repealed by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
SEC. 184.72.  CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
	Any Person who violates any provision of this Article shall be guilty of an infraction and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than $250. 
(Added as Sec. 184.73 by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
(Former Sec. 184.72 added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered as Sec. 184.71 by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
SEC. 184.73.  INVESTIGATION BY DIRECTOR.
	The Director shall investigate, or cause to be investigated, all complaints made to the Department regarding the violation of any of the provisions of this Article and take such actions regarding any violation as is provided therein. 
	In undertaking enforcement of this Article, the City, including, but not limited to, the Department, is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any Person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. The obligations this Article imposes on City officials are intended to be directive only. The provisions of this Article shall not be invalidated to the extent City officials do not comply with any obligation imposed herein. 
(Added as Sec. 184.74 by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
(Former Sec. 184.73 added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered as Sec. 184.72 by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
SEC. 184.74.  PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
	The Director shall publish a copy of this Article once in one or more newspapers of general circulation, post a copy of the Article on or near the front door of the Chamber of Commerce and on a bulletin board in or adjacent to the City Hall for a period of 90 calendar days after its passage, and prominently provide notice of this Article in any material made available to the public regarding the City's regulations of Handbills. 
	The notice requirements of this Section are intended to enhance community awareness of the City's regulations of Handbills. However, the notice requirements shall be given only directive effect. Accordingly, the failure of the Director to provide the notice required by this Section shall not be a defense in any criminal proceeding or civil action brought to enforce the provisions of this Article nor shall such failure relieve any Person of criminal or civil liability for Handbill distributions that violate this Article. 
(Added as Sec. 184.75 by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
(Former Sec. 184.74 added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered Sec. 184.73 by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
SEC. 184.75.  AUTHORITY TO MAKE RULES, ETC.
	The Director is empowered to adopt rules, regulations, and interpretations of this Ordinance as he or she may deem necessary and proper to interpret and administer the provisions of this Article provided that the rules, regulations, and interpretations shall not be inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Article. 
(Added as Sec. 184.76 by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
(Former Sec. 184.75 added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered as Sec. 184.74 by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
SEC. 184.76.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any of the provisions of this Article or the application thereof to any Person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this Article, including the application of such part or provisions to Persons or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect. To this end, the provisions of this Article are severable. 
(Added as Sec. 184.77 by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
(Former Sec. 184.76 added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered as Sec. 184.75 by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005) 
SEC. 184.77.  
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; renumbered as Sec. 184.76 by Ord. 53-05, File No. 041308, App. 4/1/2005)
SEC. 184.78.  BANNERS.
	(a)	Findings. The Board of Supervisors hereby finds that: 
		(1)	Banners placed on the upper portion of City-owned utility poles are an important medium for providing notice to San Francisco residents, as well as those who work in and visit San Francisco, about City-sponsored, City-funded, and City-wide special events, City-convention facility events, and the locations of the City's diverse neighborhoods. 
		(2)	Because of the significant economic benefits that the City gains from tourism, San Francisco has a strong interest in fostering tourism by promoting City-sponsored, City-funded and City-wide special events, and in providing notice of the locations of the City's varied and distinct neighborhoods. 
		(3)	Because of the significant economic benefits that the City gains from the events held at the City's convention facilities, San Francisco has a strong interest in fostering, promoting and identifying those events conducted at the City's convention facilities. 
		(4)	Increasing awareness of City-sponsored City-funded and City-wide special events, and San Francisco's diverse neighborhoods also fosters civic pride. 
		(5)	By adopting this section the Board does not intend to create a public forum on the upper portion of City-owned utility poles, it has decided to make the upper portion of City-owned utility poles available for the installation of banners that announce City-sponsored events, City-funded events, City-wide special events, City convention facility events, or City neighborhoods in order to achieve its goals of promoting tourism and civic pride, and providing public notice. 
	(b)	Subject to the conditions and limitations imposed by this Section, the Department is authorized to adopt rules and regulations governing the posting of banners consistent with the terms of this Article. In enacting such rules and regulations, the Department shall consider the need to protect the safety of pedestrians, vehicles and other property and the need to promote aesthetics on the City's streets and sidewalks. With respect to City-wide special event banners or City convention facility banners, the Department of Public Works shall not discriminate on the basis of the viewpoint in a banner in its administration and interpretation of this Section and any rules or regulations adopted under this Section. 
	(c)	Only the following banners may be posted on City-owned utility poles: City-sponsored banners, City-funded event banners, City-wide event banners, City convention facility banners, and City neighborhood banners. 
		(1)	A "City-sponsored banner" is a banner announcing an event or series of related events conducted by the City or any of its departments, boards, commissions or agencies, or announcing a facility operated by the City or any of its departments, boards, commissions. 
		(2)	A "City-funded event banners is a banner announcing an event or series of related events which event or series of events have received funding of $5,000 or more from the City or any of its departments, boards, commissions or agencies. 
		(3)	A "City-wide special event banner" is a banner announcing an event or series of related events of interest to a significant portion of the residents of San Francisco and/or tourists, which is not a purely commercial enterprise, and where (a) the proceeds, if any, will directly benefit either a federal, state, or local government agency or a charitable non-profit organization that maintains tax-exempt status under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) or (b) the event or series of events will take place on City-owned property and further a public purpose. 
		(4)	A "City convention facility banner" is a banner installed on any City-owned utility pole located on streets proximate to the City's convention center facilities that announces an event currently being held at a City-owned convention center facility. Those streets are: Third Street between Folsom and Mission (west side only), Folsom Street between Third and Fourth (north side only), Howard Street between Third and Fifth (both sides), Mission Street between Third and Fourth (south side only), Fourth Street between Mission and Howard (both sides), Fourth Street between Howard and Folsom (east side only), and Grove Street between Polk and Larkin (both sides). A "City convention facility banner" may only be installed proximate to the City-owned convention center facility at which the event the banner announces is currently being held. A "City convention facility banner" may only be installed 10 days prior an event, and may not remain posted for more than 10 days after an event. The Department shall give requests for a "City convention facility banner" priority over other requests for banners on City-owned utility poles directly adjacent to any part of the City's convention center facilities. 
		(5)	A "City neighborhood banner" is a banner demarking a neighborhood in San Francisco, placed in that neighborhood, and (A) identifying the neighborhood's name, such as, for example: the Tenderloin, or Pacific Heights, or (B) symbolically representing the neighborhood, such as the rainbow flags in and adjacent to the Castro neighborhood starting at Church Street and ending at Castro Street. 
		(6)	For the purposes of this Section, an "event or series of related events of interest to a significant portion of the residents of San Francisco" is any event or series of related events that take place in the City and that reasonably expect an in-person attendance of 500 or more people for a single event or 1000 or more people for a series of events. Expected attendance may be demonstrated by attendance at that same event or series of related events in previous years, attendance at a similar event or series of related events in previous years, by attendance projections for an event or series of events based on sales of tickets or subscriptions to the event or series of related events or, for an event or series of events that is being organized for the first time, by another reasonable measure of expected in-person attendance to be determined by the Department of Public Works. 
	(d)	Under the findings made in Section 184.58, no banner may be posted on the historic and decorative lamp posts listed in Section 184.58, with the exception of those historic and decorative lamp posts in the "Mission Street Corridor" located on Mission Street between Sixteenth and Twenty-Fourth Streets, where banners may be posted. 
	(e)	No banner shall be affixed to more than one structure so that it spans the area between two or more structures or spans a street unless and until the party responsible for the posting of such banner first obtains a permit from the Department for the purpose of enabling that Department to ensure that the banner is posted in a safe manner and that the party has obtained adequate insurance coverage for any risk posed by such posting, according to guidelines established by the Director; and provided that, if any part of the banner is to be attached to non-City property, upon filing the permit application, the party shall be notified that the consent of the private owner should be obtained before posting the banner. 
	(f)	Notwithstanding anything in this Code that may be to the contrary, the Director is authorized to permit the posting of banners on the historic lamp posts lining Market Street, an area known as the "Path of Gold," City Landmark #200, and more fully described in Section 184.58, for: 
		(1)	City neighborhood banners as defined in Subsection (c)(5); or
		(2)	subject to the following conditions:
			(A)	The Director may issue a permit only for an event: (A) that results in the closure of all or a portion of Market Street's Path of Gold and (B) for which the event sponsor has already obtained the necessary City approvals for such closure; and 
			(B)	Banners shall not be posted for longer than 30 days prior to the event, nor remain posted for longer than 10 days after the event. 
		(3)	All banners permitted under this Subsection shall be attached with fasteners that are completely reversible and cause no damage.
		(4)	Prior to issuance of a permit under this Subsection (f), including any permit modification or a temporary permit, the Historic Preservation Commission shall have approved a Certificate of Appropriateness pursuant to Planning Code Section 1006. 
	(g)	The following shall apply to all Banners:
		(1)	Banners identifying the name of a commercial sponsor must limit that identification to a logo or business name only, located in the top or bottom portion of the banner, and comprising no more than 15% of the total area of the banner. 
		(2)	Banners shall not be installed for longer than 30 days prior to the event or series of events, nor remain posted for longer than 10 days after the event or series of events. 
		(3)	Banners shall be limited in size to 36 inches in width by 72 inches in length.
		(4)	An application for a banner permit may be submitted to the Department no earlier than 90 days prior to the first day for which the banner permit is sought. 
	(h)	No banners may be installed in R (residential) districts, excepting RM-4 (residential-mixed high density) districts as defined in the San Francisco Planning Code, Article 2 and excepting the R (residential) districts contained with the area defined as the North of Market/Tenderloin Community Benefit District in Board of Supervisors Resolution No. 584-05, Clerk of the Board of Supervisors File No. 051192, including the street face opposite the boundaries of this District. 
	(i)	All banners shall bear the name of the installer of the banner and a local or toll-free phone number, labeled "Service Number," where citizens may contact or leave word for the installer of the banner regarding maintenance or repair problems with any banner bearing the installer's service phone number. This required text shall be imprinted and maintained on the face or edge of the banner and shall be a minimum of 2 inches in height. 
	(j)	Each applicant for a banner permit shall pay to the Department of Public Works a processing fee of $65 for the first 20 banners sought to compensate the Department for the cost of processing and administering the permit. An applicant shall pay a fee of $65 for each 20 additional banners sought per application. Processing fees for banner requests under 20 banners shall be prorated. 
	(k)	Each applicant for a banner permit shall pay to the Department of Public Works an inspection fee of $130 for the first 20 banners approved to compensate the Department for the cost of enforcing the banner permits. Applicants shall pay an inspection fee of $130 for each 20 additional banners, or fraction thereof, approved. 
	(l)	The procedures to review and adjust the fees specified in Section 184.78(k) and Section 184.78(l) shall be the procedures for fee review and adjustment set forth in Section 2.1.2 of the Public Works Code. 
	(m)	Any person violating the provisions of this Section or any regulations promulgated by the Department of Public Works pursuant to this Section, shall be guilty of an infraction. Each banner determined to be an infraction is punishable by (1) a fine of $100 for a first violation; (2) a fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year; (3) a fine not exceeding $500 and revocation of the permittee's banner permits for a third violation within one year. 
	(n)	In addition, a fee equal to the cost of the time and materials expended by the Department of Public Works may be imposed by the Department of Public Works for investigation of banners being maintained without or in violation of a valid permit. Payment of the fees shall be directly to the Department of Public Works. 
		(1)	The person responsible for payment of the fee may appeal the amount of the investigation fee to the Board of Appeals, subject to its filing fees and rules. 
		(2)	The nonpayment of such fee or fine, or the continued existence of a condition in violation of this Section, shall be grounds for the Director of Public Works to deny a permit for a banner to the responsible owner or applicant until such penalty has been paid and the condition corrected. 
	(o)	At his or her discretion, the Director of the Department of Public Works may require that a performance bond, not to exceed $25,000 be posted before a banner permit is granted to any permittee who has violated this Section, or any of the regulations promulgated by the Department of Public Works pursuant to this Section, more than three times within the year preceding the banner permit request. 
	(p)	Six months after the effective date of this legislation an appropriate committee of the Board of Supervisors shall hold a hearing to review the status of the City's banner program. 
(Added by Ord. 116-99, File No. 982076, App. 5/14/99; amended by Ord. 82-00, File No. 000532, App. 5/5/2000; Ord. 11-05, File No. 041350, App. 1/21/2005; Ord. 193-10, File No. 100758, App. 7/29/2010; Ord. 13-11, File No. 101445, App. 1/18/2011) 
ARTICLE 5.8:
PERMIT REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE FOOD FACILITIES CONCERNING PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION

Sec. 184.80.Definitions.Sec. 184.81.Permit Required.Sec. 184.82.Exclusions.Sec. 184.83.Mobile Food Facility Application and Fee Provisions.Sec. 184.84.Mobile Food Facility Application Form.Sec. 184.84.1.Corporate Applicants; Exemption.Sec. 184.85.Regulating Mobile Food Facility Locations.Sec. 184.86.Mobile Food Facilities, Maximum Permissible.Sec. 184.86.1.Mobile Food Facilities from Formula Retail Uses.Sec. 184.87.Single Day of Operation for a Mobile Food Facility.Sec. 184.88.Notice of Intent; Appeal of Protest or Denial of Permit.Sec. 184.89.Issuance of Mobile Food Facility Permit.Sec. 184.90.Identification Card.Sec. 184.91.Mobile Food Facility  Inspection and Annual Certificate of Sanitation and Fire Marshal Approval.Sec. 184.92.Mobile Food Facility  Decal and Display.Sec. 184.93.Exhibition of Mobile Food Facility Permit and Other Identifying Information.Sec. 184.94.Good Neighbor Policies.Sec. 184.96.Transfer of Permit.Sec. 184.97.Suspension and Revocation of Permits.Sec. 184.98.Penalties.Sec. 184.99.Removal of Mobile Food Facilities.Sec. 184.100.Severability.
SEC. 184.80.  DEFINITIONS.
	For the purpose of this Article the following words and phrases mean and include: 
	BART. San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District. 
	Department. The Department of Public Works. 
	Director. The Director of the Department of Public Works or his or her designated representative. 
	Director of Health. The Director of the Public Health Department of the City and County of San Francisco or a designated representative of the Director of Health. 
	Location. A Mobile Food Facility location is a fixed point or defined route including an approximate duration at specific fixed points and approximate time of day at specific fixed points along the route. 
	Mobile Caterer. Any motorized vehicle wherein or wherefrom wrapped food, foodstuffs, products, liquids or material intended or food or drink for human consumption are sold, served, distributed, or offered for sale at retail or given away to the public. 
	Mobile Food Facility. Any vehicle or pushcart used in conjunction with a commissary or other permanent food facility upon which food is sold or distributed at retail. Mobile Food Facility does not include a "Transporter" used to transport packaged food from a food facility or other approved source to the consumer. A Mobile Food Facility does not include any use that sells goods, wares, or merchandise other than food or drink intended for human consumption. For purposes of this Article, a pushcart or a mobile caterer are both referred to as a Mobile Food Facility unless specifically stated otherwise. 
	Mobile Food Facility Vendor. Any person or entity engaged in the business of operating a Mobile Food Facility within the City and County of San Francisco. 
	Person. An individual or natural person. 
	Pushcart. Any wagon, cart, or any other food-serving device, whether stationary or movable, wherein or wherefrom any food or foodstuffs are sold, served, distributed, offered for sale at retail, or given away to the public, whether consumed at said pushcart or elsewhere. 
	Pushcart Peddler. Any person or entity engaged in the business of operating a pushcart within the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010; amended by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.81.  PERMIT REQUIRED.
	It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in or carry on the business of a Mobile Food Facility, or to operate, or cause or permit to be operated any Mobile Food Facility upon any public street, sidewalk, alley, or any other public place in the City and County of San Francisco, without first having obtained a permit from the Director accompanied by approval by the Director of Health and the Fire Marshal. This Article shall apply only to Mobile Food Facilities on public right-of-way under the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works and as defined in Public Works Code Section 2.4.4(t). 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
SEC. 184.82.  EXCLUSIONS.
	(a)	The provisions of this Article do not apply to those Mobile Food Facilities distributing food and/or drink for human consumption that operate wholly, and exclusively on streets, drives, alleys, squares, parks, piers, loading facilities, schools, colleges or universities under the jurisdiction of the Recreation and Park Commission of the City and County of San Francisco, the Board of Education of the City and County of San Francisco, or the San Francisco Port Commission and are authorized by said Commissions or Board to maintain stopping places to conduct sales of food and/or drink for human consumption at locations under the authority of said Commissions or Board. 
	(b)	A Pushcart Peddler who applies for and receives a permit from BART for operation of a Pushcart at the 16th St. and 24th St. BART stations and the street level plazas adjacent thereto shall not be required to obtain a permit from the Director for that Location, and shall be exempt from the fee, application, and hearing procedures provided for in this Article for that Location. The Pushcart Peddler, however, shall be subject to the provisions set forth in Sections 184.91, 184.92, and 184.94. 
	(c)	When an application for a permit to operate a Pushcart is filed with BART, BART shall inform the Director of Health so that the Director of Health may make an investigation into the applicant's proposed Mobile Food Facility. In order to operate the Pushcart, the Peddler shall first obtain an annual Certificate of Sanitation from the Director of Health and pay Department of Public Health fees as set forth in Section 184.83. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
SEC. 184.83.  MOBILE FOOD FACILITY APPLICATION AND FEE PROVISIONS.
	(a)	Every person desiring a Mobile Food Facility permit pursuant to this Article shall file an application with the Director upon a form provided by the Director and shall pay a filing fee of $125.00, a notification fee of $200.00, and an inspection fee of $383.00 for a single Location for the Mobile Food Facility. Each additional Location shall require payment to the Department of a notification fee of $200.00 per Location, an inspection fee of $383.00 for the first additional Location and an inspection fee of $191.50 per each additional Location. Separate fees shall be paid to the Department of Health and the Fire Marshal for the annual approvals required by each department for a valid permit under this Article. The fees for the Department of Public Health are set forth in the Business and Taxation Code. 
	(b)	Half of the required fees for a single Location and half of the fees for any additional Location(s) shall be paid at the time of application submission and the remainder of the total fee amount shall be paid at the time of the Director's decision on the permit. No refunds are available if the Department disapproves a permit or a Permit Location. 
	(c)	Every Permittee desiring to change the Location of the Mobile Food Facility, modify the hours of operation to allow service after 8 p.m., or add a new Location(s) during the term of the annual permit, shall file an application with the Director upon a form provided by the Director and shall pay a filing fee of $85.00 for each Location change or addition of a new Location(s), a notification fee of $200.00 per Location, and an inspection fee of $191.50 per Location. Such requests shall be processed in the same manner as a new permit. 
	(d)	Permit Renewal, Annual Renewal Fee, Permit Expiration.
		(1)	Every Mobile Food Facility permit is subject to an annual renewal filing fee of $125.00 per permit. In addition, if during the course of the preceding year the Department received one or more substantiated complaints against the permit Location(s) or filed one or more notices of violation against the Permit, the Department shall assess an additional processing fee of $159.50 per permit. The Department also shall charge inspection fees as follows: $576.00 the first two (2) Locations where substantiated complaints were received or notices of violation filed and $288.00 per each additional Location where substantiated complaints were received or notices of violation filed. Said fees are payable to the Department. Separate annual fees shall be paid to the Department of Health and the Fire Marshal for the approvals required by each department for a valid renewal permit under this Article. The annual renewal fees for the Department of Public Health are set forth in the Business and Taxation Code. 
		(2)	Any Mobile Food Facility permit that the Director renews is not operative unless and until the Mobile Food Facility Vendor has obtained an annual renewal of his or her Certificate of Sanitation for the Department of Public Health and approval from the Fire Marshal. 
		(3)	The permit renewal date shall be the date that the Director issues his or her decision to renew the permit or conditionally renew the permit.
		(4)	Permits are renewed annually so long as the Mobile Food Facility remains in compliance with this Article, including payment of all fees due to the City. Annual renewal of a permit does not constitute issuance of a new permit and does not require notice under Section 184.88. Notwithstanding the above, if, as part of a permit renewal, the permittee is changing the Location that the Mobile Food Facility serves, adding a new Location(s), changing the hours of operation to serve a Location later than 8 p.m.; or making other changes to the Mobile Food Facility that the Director determines requires public notice, the Department shall treat such changes as the equivalent of a new permit and require the applicant to satisfy the requirements associated with applying for and obtaining a new permit.
		(5)	Permit Expiration. A permit shall be deemed to expire seven (7) years from the anniversary of the original permit issuance date as long as the permittee remains in compliance with this Article during that term. If the permittee elects to pursue a new permit six (6) months prior to such expiration, the existing permittee may apply for a new permit under the same terms as the existing permit and shall be given priority over any other applicants. The only required notice under this Subsection shall be an electronic notice issued by the Department to any individual(s) or organization(s) that have requested such notification by the Department, except that any permittees who have received three (3) or more Notice of Violations by the Department in a period of 24 months prior to their permit expiration shall be required to satisfy all noticing requirements of Section 184.88 of this Article. Any new permit issued in accordance with the terms of this Subsection shall be subject to all applicable provisions of this Article. Subject to Section 184.88, if a protest is filed to request a Departmental administrative hearing on the new permit, the permittee may continue to operate under the provisions of the old permit until a decision is rendered by the Director of Public Works on the new permit.
		(6)	If an existing permittee seeks a new permit for the same Location in accordance with the terms of Subsection (d)(5), but that Location no longer satisfies the requirements of Section 184.85, the Director, under such circumstances, shall strive to authorize a temporary or permanent relocation of the Mobile Food Facility to a comparable Location that meets the requirements of Section 184.85. Any such authorization shall be in writing and available at the Mobile Food Facility prior to issuance of a new permit. Notice related to the proposed temporary or permanent relocation of the Mobile Food Facility shall be subject to all applicable noticing requirements set forth in Subsection (d)(5).
		(7)	If a permittee for a Mobile Food Facility has a valid permit for a specific Location dated on or before July 1, 2013, said permittee is exempt from Subsection (d)(5) as long as the such permittee complies with all other applicable terms of this Article. As part of any permit issuance, renewal, or transfer pursuant to this Article, the Department shall include reference to the original granting date of the Mobile Food Facility permit. 
	(e)	The fees set forth in this Section are subject to the fee review and adjustment procedures of Section 2.1.2.
	(f)	Each Mobile Food Facility shall require a separate permit pursuant to this Article. Each permit issued pursuant to this Article shall be valid for only those Locations and hours of operation that the Department approves as set forth in this Article. 
	(g)	Notwithstanding Subsection (f), the Director may issue a single permit or permits to an assigned Location(s) for multiple Mobile Food Facilities. The fees for such permit shall be the filing, notification, and inspection fees for a single Location. Under such circumstances, Director also may charge additional permit fees as set forth in Section 2.1.3. All Mobile Food Facilities operating under a single Location permit shall comply with all other provisions of this Article. 
	(h)	The Board of Supervisors reserves the right to charge a public right-of-way assessment fee for occupation of the right-of-way by a Mobile Food Facility. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010; amended by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.84.  MOBILE FOOD FACILITY APPLICATION FORM.
	Except as otherwise provided herein, an application for a Mobile Food Facility permit pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall specify or include: 
	(a)	The name, business and residence address of the applicant and the address where the mobile catering vehicle is stored during nonoperating hours. If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation; the names and residence addresses of each of the officers, directors and each stockholder owning more than 10 percent of the stock of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the application shall set forth the name and residence address of each of the partners, including limited partners. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this Section pertaining to a corporate applicant apply. A natural person shall not acquire a stock interest in more than one corporate permittee. 
	(b)	A description of the Mobile Catering Vehicle, including the following data: The make, model and type of body; the number of cylinders; the vehicle identification number or any other identifying number as may be required by the Director. 
		(1)	If this information is not known at the time of permit application, this requirement can be satisfied as a condition of obtaining a final and effective permit. 
	(c)	Whether or not the applicant intends to operate a Mobile Food Facility under a fictitious name.
	(d)	Such information pertinent to the operation of the proposed activity, including information as to management and authority control, as the Director, Director of Health, or Fire Marshal may require of an applicant in addition to the other requirements of this Section. 
	(e)	The address to which notice, when required, is to be sent or mailed, and the name and address of a person authorized to accept service or process, if not otherwise set forth herein. 
	(f)	A photograph of the permit applicant.
	(g)	Whether the application is for a new permit, renewal of an existing permit, a change to the Location that the Mobile Food Facility serves, a change in hours of operation, or the addition of a Location(s). 
	(h)	A description of the food product, products, and/or drink the applicant intends to sell though no permittee shall be bound by or limited to this description.
	(i)	The specific Location(s) of the activity, including a detailed description of where the applicant intends to place his or her Mobile Food Facility. 
	(j)	The proposed hours of operation and days of operation for each Location that the Mobile Food Facility proposes to serve. The application should specify no more than three (3) 24-hour cycles (or portions thereof) and associated days for each Location over the course of one (1) week as part of the application in accordance with the requirements of Section 184.85(b)(6). The applicant also may propose alternate cycles and/or days if the preferred time periods are denied or not otherwise available. The specified time(s) and Location(s) shall repeat each week during the term of the permit.
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010; amended by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.84.1.  CORPORATE APPLICANTS; EXEMPTION.
	The provisions of Sections 184.84 relating to requirements for corporate applicants shall not apply to any of the following: 
	(1)	A corporation, the stock of which is listed on a stock exchange in the State of California or in the City of New York, State of New York. 
	(2)	A bank, trust company, financial institution or title company to which application is made or to whom a license is issued in a fiduciary capacity. 
	(3)	A corporation which is required by law to file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
SEC. 184.85.  REGULATING MOBILE FOOD FACILITY LOCATIONS.
	(a)	Every person desiring a permit pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements set forth in this Section 184.85 and any regulations and rules that the Director adopts pursuant to this Article. 
	(b)	The Director may issue a Mobile Food Facility permit only when the Director finds that the following location and time requirements are met: 
		(1)	The Location shall:
			(A)	Leave unobstructed path for pedestrian passage on any sidewalk a space not less than 6 feet wide.
			(B)	Satisfy all other locational requirements of the Department.
		(2)	No Mobile Food Facility or Mobile Food Facility Vendor shall peddle food or drink between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless the Director has approved such sales after consulting with the Planning Department and the Chief of Police. 
		(3)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, no Mobile Food Facility or Mobile Food Facility Vendor shall peddle food or drink: 
			(A)	In any residential ("R") district other than a residential-commercial combined ("RC") district as defined in the Planning Code. 
			(B)	In the "P" districts, as defined in Section 234 of the Planning Code, that are located on Twin Peaks or in any areas in or adjacent to Open Space Districts located on Twin Peaks. 
			(C)	On the sidewalk or street immediately adjacent to property under the jurisdiction of the Recreation and Park Commission other than the areas specified above in Subsection (B) unless written consent is obtained from the General Manager of the Recreation and Park Department.
			(D)	On the north side of Jefferson Street between Jones and Taylor.
			(E)	Within 500 feet of the property line of any public middle school or junior high school between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
			(F)	Within 1,000 feet of the property line of any public high school between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday except that this distance shall be within 750 feet for the following public schools:
				(i)	John O'Connell (Assessor's Block 3593, Lot 04)
				(ii)	Mission High School (Assessor's Block 3579, Lot 006)
				(iii)	Hilltop High School (Assessor's Block 4273, Lot 008)
				(iv)	Galileo High School (Assessor's Block 0475, Lot 001)
				(v)	International Studies Academy (Assessor's Block 4032, Lot 001)
				(vi)	Principal's Center (Assessor's Block 1761, Lot 040)
				(vii)	Civic Center High School (Assessor's Block 0768, Lot 015).
		(4)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, no Mobile Caterer, shall peddle food or drink within a 75-foot radius of any restaurant as measured from the centerline of the primary entrance to the restaurant subject to the following:
			(A)	The restaurant shall be operational at the time the Mobile Food Facility applies for a permit for the particular Location.
			(B)	For purposes of this Subsection, restaurant is defined under Health Code Section 451 and includes only the following food preparation and service establishment permit types: (i) fast food establishment, (ii) restaurant less than 1,000 square feet, (iii) restaurant between 1,000 and 2,000 square feet, and (iv) restaurant greater than 2,000 square feet. Restaurant also includes a take-out establishment as defined in Health Code Section 451.
			(C)	Notwithstanding Subsection (B) above, if the restaurant provides any food product and marketing uses as defined in Health Code Section 440, then it shall not constitute a restaurant for purposes of this Subsection.
			(D)	Notwithstanding this Subsection (4), its terms shall not apply to any Mobile Caterer that would be located in the prohibited area at any time between the hours of 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. the following day.
		(5)	The prohibition set forth in Subsection (4) above shall apply only if a restaurant has direct street access to its primary entrance.
		(6)	Notwithstanding this Subsection (4), if the active street-facing facade of a restaurant extends beyond 75 feet from its primary entrance, no Mobile Caterer shall operate along the curb directly fronting any active street-facing faade. Under no circumstances shall a Mobile Caterer be parked within 50 feet of the active street-facing faade of such a restaurant.
		(7)	Mobile Food Facilities shall be limited to serving one Location no more than three (3) days per week. Such days shall be measured in 24-hour cycles so that they could begin on one day and extend to the following day so long as the subject cycle does not constitute more than 24 consecutive hours at a single Location.
		(8)	The Mobile Food Facility shall comply with all color curb controls.
		(9)	The Mobile Food Facility shall occupy no more than the equivalent of two (2) parking spaces.
		(10)	A Mobile Food Facility shall be permitted to sell any food and/or drink item that the Vendor elects to sell so long as the item and its preparation comply with all applicable State and local laws.
	(c)	Notwithstanding the locational requirements of Subsection (b)(1), if a Pushcart Peddler has a valid permit for a specific Location dated as of July 19, 1995, said Peddler is exempt from Subsection (b)(1)(B) and the Director may issue an exception to Subsection (b)(1)(A) for such Peddler as long as the permitted pedestrian passage satisfies applicable federal and State access requirements. 
	(d)	If a Mobile Food Facility has a valid permit dated prior to July l, 2013 for a particular time and Location, said Facility is exempt from the locational requirements of Subsections (b)(4)-(6) for purposes of the specific time(s) and Location(s) identified in said permit. Any modification to such time or Location shall be subject to all the requirements of this Article.
	(e)	The Director, after a public hearing, may adopt such orders, policies, regulations, rules, or standard plans and specifications as he or she deems necessary in order to preserve and maintain the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience. Such orders, policies, regulations, or rules may include, but are not limited to, permit application materials, placement of and information contained on signs, site conditions, accessibility of sidewalks and streets. When such orders, policies, regulations, or rules will affect the operations and enforcement of the Municipal Transportation Agency, the Department of Public Health, or the Fire Department, the Director shall consult with and provide an opportunity to comment to the Director of the affected Department prior to adoption of such orders, policies, regulations, or rule. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010; amended by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.86.  MOBILE FOOD FACILITIES, MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE.
	(a)	In no case may a single permittee obtain more than seven (7) separate Mobile Food Facility permits.
	(b)	If a Pushcart Peddler has seven (7) or more valid permits for specific Locations dated as of July 19, 1995, said permits shall not be counted toward the maximum permissible number of Facilities in Subsection (a). 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
SEC. 184.86.1.  MOBILE FOOD FACILITIES FROM FORMULA RETAIL USES.
	(a)	If a Mobile Food Facility is operated by or otherwise an affiliate of a formula retail use as defined in Planning Code Section 303(i) that is a eating and drinking use, restaurant, or limited-restaurant, as such terms are defined in Planning Code Articles 7 and 8, the following restrictions shall apply:
		(1)	The Mobile Food Facility is prohibited within the boundaries of those zoning districts where formula retail is prohibited or subject to conditional use authorization as set forth in Planning Code Section 303(i)(4) and (5).
		(2)	Notwithstanding the above restrictions, this Subsection shall not apply if the subject Mobile Food Facility is operating in accordance with the terms of Section 184.87 (Single Day of Operations) or Section 184.89(e) (in connection with a City-permitted temporary use).
	(b)	For purposes of this Section, the term "affiliate" includes, but is not limited to, an individual or entity that has the corporate name of or is owned in whole or in part by the formula retail uses described above, has a direct financial or contractual relationship with such uses, or is the franchisee of such uses.
(Added by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.87.  SINGLE DAY OF OPERATION FOR A MOBILE FOOD FACILITY.
	(a)	A Mobile Food Facility that otherwise meets the all the Locational requirements other than Section 184.85(b)(3)(A), has a San Francisco Business Registration Certificate from the Office of the Treasurer and Tax Collector, has an active Certificate of Sanitation by the Department of Health and necessary approvals from the Fire Marshal, shall be eligible to obtain single day permits for a Location pursuant to the review, permit fee, and permit approval process for single day non-construction permits under Sections 724 et seq. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
SEC. 184.88.  NOTICE OF INTENT; APPEAL OF PROTEST OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
	(a)	Notice of Intent; Contents of Notice. Following the filing of an application for a new Mobile Food Facility permit under this Article, change of Location of an existing permit, change in hours of operation so that service occurs after 8 p.m., or addition of a Location(s), the Department shall mail Notice of Intent to operate the proposed Mobile Food Facility business at the Location(s) identified in the application. The form for the Notice of Intent shall be provided to each applicant by the Department. Said notice shall include the Location(s) the Mobile Food Facility intends to serve, the days of the week and times for service at each Location, a description of the goods to be sold under the permit, the procedure for obtaining any additional information, and the procedure for filing any protest or opposition to the proposed permit. The applicant also shall provide the Department with a list of all required recipients of the mailed notice and stamped envelopes with the addresses of all such individuals for the purpose of providing mailed notice. Notice shall be provided as follows: 
		(1)	If the Mobile Food Facility will operate between the hours of 6 a.m. and 8 p.m., mailed notice shall be sent to all ground floor commercial tenants and any neighborhood organization on the Planning Department list developed pursuant to Planning Code Section 311(c)(2)(C) within the area set forth in Subsection (4) below. 
		(2)	If the Mobile Food Facility will operate at any Location between the hours of 8 p.m. and 3 a.m. the following day, mailed notice shall be provided to all property owners, residential tenants, ground floor commercial tenants, and any neighborhood organization on the Planning Department list developed pursuant to Planning Code Section 311(c)(2)(C) within the area set forth in Subsection (4) below. 
		(3)	For each physical building address within the area set forth in Subsection (4) below, notice also shall be mailed to the attention of "Building Owner/Manager" at that address and to the address of record for the property owner, if different.
		(4)	(A) If the Mobile Food Facility is a Mobile Caterer, notice shall be given within a Noticed Area. For purposes of this Subsection, "Noticed Area" shall be defined as all buildings within a 75-foot radius from the outer perimeter of the proposed Location(s) to be served. For purposes of measuring this distance, a Mobile Caterer shall be assumed to occupy 20 linear feet of curbside area. The 75-foot radius shall be measured from the outer boundaries of this assumed curbside area. Notice also shall be provided to all properties across the street that directly front, in whole or in part, the Noticed Area Location for at least 10 calendar days prior to the close of the period to request a Departmental hearing. The applicant shall photograph the posted notice, including a date stamp, and submit such photograph to the Department. Such photograph shall satisfy this posting requirement.
			(B)	If the Mobile Food Facility is a Pushcart, notice shall be given within a 300 foot radius of the boundaries of the street address(s) in front of which the Pushcart will be located. If there is no street address, the notice shall be given within a 300 foot radius of the boundaries of the Assessor's Block(s) and Lot(s) in front of which the Pushcart will be located. 
	(b)	Protest and Appeal of Proposed Issuance or Denial of Permit. (1) Any person or persons who deem their interests or property or that of the general public will be adversely affected by the issuance of the Mobile Food Facility permit at its intended Location may protest the issuance of said permit by writing to the Director within 30 calendar days from the date listed on the Notice of Intent. Upon receipt of any such written protest during the term of the protest period, the Director will schedule a public hearing to hear all protests or opposition to the issuance of the permit. If there are multiple protests for a single Location or protests for multiple Locations, then the Director shall strive to consolidate all protests at a single hearing. The Director's decision to approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove a permit is appealable to the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the Director's decision: 
	(c)	Notice of Hearing. Not less than 10 days before the date of a Departmental hearing scheduled under subsection (b) above, the Director shall cause to be published a notice of such hearing in the official newspaper of the City and County of San Francisco. The Director shall maintain a file of the names and addresses of all persons wishing to receive notice by mail of any application filed pursuant to this Article and of all persons previously notified of the proposed application: Not less than 10 days before the date of such hearing, the Director shall cause to be mailed notice of such hearing to all persons requesting to be so notified. The cost of publishing said notice and any additional mailed notice shall be borne by the Mobile Food Facility permit applicant if the cost exceeds the notification fee set forth in Section 184.83. Such notices published or mailed pursuant to this Section shall contain the following: the name and business address of the applicant, the product or products to be sold, the Location(s) of the proposed sales activity, the days and hours of operation, and whether the application is for a new permit, for a change of an existing permit, or for addition of a new Location(s). 
	(d)	At the hearing, the Director may consider the following:
		(1)	Whether the applicant's proposed Location is within a 75-foot radius of a restaurant as set forth in Section 184.85(b)(4) or of any Location previously established and currently being operated by a Mobile Food Facility.
		(2)	Whether three (3) or more Mobile Food Facilities are currently permitted for overlapping times on either side of the street of the same block.
		(3)	Other information deemed relevant to the determination of whether the proposed Location would generate a public safety concern.
		(4)	Whether the sidewalk width at the proposed Location is less than ten (10) feet wide.
		(5)	Whether substantiated evidence exists to refute assertions in the application for the Mobile Food Facility.
	(e)	If an administrative hearing officer conducts the hearing, such officer shall make a recommendation concerning the proposed permit to the Director, who, in his or her discretion, may disapprove, approve, or conditionally approve the proposed permit. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010; amended by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.89.  ISSUANCE OF MOBILE FOOD FACILITY PERMIT.
	(a)	The Director may issue a Mobile Food Facility permit within 14 days if no hearing is requested pursuant to this Article, if he or she finds: 
		(1)	That the operation, as proposed by the applicant, would comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to, the provisions of this Article and the San Francisco Municipal Code. 
		(2)	That the applicant has not made any false, misleading or fraudulent statements of facts in the permit application or any other document required by the Director or the Director of Health in conjunction therewith. 
	(b)	The Director may issue a Mobile Food Facility permit within 14 days following a Departmental hearing as provided herein, based on his investigation and the investigation of the Director of Health, if he or she makes the findings specified above in Subsection (a). 
	(c)	Any Mobile Food Facility permit that the Director issues shall be conditioned on the Mobile Food Facility Vendor obtaining a Certificate of Sanitation for the Department of Public Health and approval from the Fire Marshal. If the Certificate of Sanitation and Fire Marshal approval are not obtained within 3 months of the date the Director issues his or her permit decision, the permit shall be automatically revoked. 
	(d)	Notwithstanding the issuance of a Permit for a specific Location(s), such Permit shall be temporarily suspended if any City Department issues a permit for occupancy of the subject Location for street fairs, farmers market, temporary use, street or building construction, or other permitted activities. At the request of the Permittee, the Director may, but is not required, to authorize a temporary relocation of the Mobile Food Facility under such circumstances. Any such authorization shall be in writing and available at the Mobile Food Facility for review by City officials. 
	(e)	No permit shall be required under this Article if any City Department issues a permit for occupancy of the subject Location for street fairs, farmers market, temporary use, or other permitted activities as long as the Mobile Food Facility has a Certificate of Sanitation and Fire Marshal approval. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010; amended by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.90.  IDENTIFICATION CARD.
	The Director shall issue to each permittee an identification card which shall contain the number of the permit in figures plainly discernible. The Director shall determine the manner and form of any other information that may be placed upon this identification card. Such identification card must be in the possession of the operator at all times during hours that the mobile catering vehicle is in operation. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
SEC. 184.91.  MOBILE FOOD FACILITY  INSPECTION AND ANNUAL CERTIFICATE OF SANITATION AND FIRE MARSHAL APPROVAL.
	All Mobile Food Facilities having a permit issued pursuant to this Article and the approvals of the Director of Health and Fire Marshal to operate with the City shall be subject to inspection at any time during operating hours. All Mobile Food Facilities shall obtain an annual Certificate of Sanitation and Fire Marshal approval on or before the annual renewal of the Mobile Food Facility permit for the Location(s) of said Mobile Food Facility as specified in said permit. The annual Certificate of Sanitation and Fire Marshal approval shall be at a time and place designated by the Director of Health and Fire Marshal, respectively. Failure to appear for the annual renewal as described above shall be deemed a violation of this Article and may be cause for suspension or revocation of said permit. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
SEC. 184.92.  MOBILE FOOD FACILITY  DECAL AND DISPLAY.
	(a)	The Director of Health shall annually issue a Certificate of Sanitation as a decal. In the case of a Pushcart, the decal shall be affixed to a permanent holder designed to display such decal. In the case of a Mobile Caterer, the decal shall be affixed to the lower right-hand corner of the windshield. The number assigned to each Mobile Food Facility shall be forwarded to the Director and/or BART depending on the Location of the Mobile Food Facility. 
	(b)	Mobile Food Facilities shall be maintained in good repair and in good sanitary condition at all times.
	(c)	Mobile Food Facilities shall have the permittee's name and address painted on both sides of the Facility in letters at least three inches in height. In the case of Pushcarts, the Director may waive or modify this requirement based on size constraints of the Pushcart. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
SEC. 184.93.  EXHIBITION OF MOBILE FOOD FACILITY PERMIT AND OTHER IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
	(a)	Upon demand by any Police Officer, the Director, the Director of Health, or the Fire Marshal, each Mobile Food Facility Vendor or Mobile Food Facility employee shall produce the Mobile Food Facility permit, a valid San Francisco Business Registration Certificate from the Office of the Treasurer and Tax Collector, a valid Certificate of Sanitation, an identification card, a description of the approved Location(s) and hours of operation for a Mobile Food Facility, and all other documents required under this Article so that the Location of the Mobile Food Facility may be checked and verified. 
	(b)	The permit, business license, decal confirming a valid Certificate of Sanitation, identification card, and a description of the approved Location(s) and hours of operation for a Mobile Food Facility shall be displayed in a manner where it is in plain view of the public at all times or as otherwise prescribed by the Department.
	(c)	If the Municipal Transportation Agency authorizes use of a no parking sign for Mobile Food Facilities, a Mobile Food Facility Vendor may display such sign(s) at the Location of the Mobile Food Facility pursuant to any Municipal Transportation Agency rules and regulations for posting of such signs.
	(d)	A Mobile Food Facility Vendor is prohibited from placing any freestanding A-frame, display, sign, or other obstruction on the public right-of-way with the exception of refuse collection receptacle.
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010; amended by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.94.  GOOD NEIGHBOR POLICIES.
	Mobile Food Facilities shall be managed in accordance with the following good neighbor policies: 
	(a)	The quiet, safety, and cleanliness of the Mobile Food Facility Location and its adjacent area shall be maintained;
	(b)	Proper and adequate storage and disposal of debris and garbage shall be provided;
	(c)	Noise and odors shall be contained within immediate area of the Mobile Food Facility Location so as not to be a nuisance to neighbors; 
	(d)	Notices shall be prominently displayed urging patrons to leave the Mobile Food Facility premises and neighborhood in a quiet, peaceful, and orderly fashion and to please not litter or block driveways in the neighborhood; and, 
	(e)	Employees of the Mobile Food Facility shall walk a 100-foot radius from the Location some time within 30 minutes after closing and shall pick up and dispose of any discarded beverage containers and other trash left by patrons. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
SEC. 184.95.  RESERVED.
SEC. 184.96.  TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
	No permit shall be transferable except with the written consent of the Director with the approval of the Director of Health, such consent and approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The application for such transfer shall contain the same information as requested herein for an initial application for such a permit and shall be accompanied by the same filing and inspection fees as for an initial application and, with the exception of any Mobile Food Facility permit issued on or before July 1, 2013, shall comply with all applicable provisions of this Article; provided, however, that no notice is required for a transfer. Upon approval of said transfer, the transferee shall retain the original permit granting date and all of the transferor's rights under this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010; amended by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.97.  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
	(a)	The Director may suspend or revoke for good cause any permit or any permit Location, which has been issued pursuant to this Article, if he finds, after a noticed public hearing, that such permit holder has engaged in or been found guilty of any of the following acts: 
		(1)	Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the application for permit.
		(2)	Violation of provisions of State law regarding Mobile Food Facilities, the State Vehicle Code, this Article or any of the regulations or rules adopted pursuant to this Article, the San Francisco Municipal Code, or a determination of violation by the Director of Public Health under Subsection (b). 
		(3)	Any violations occur as specified herein for another Mobile Food Facility permit issued to the same permittee.
		(4)	The Mobile Food Facility Vendor is operating in a manner that negatively impacts the public health, safety, convenience, or welfare. 
		(5)	The Mobile Food Facility Vendor habitually violates the Good Neighbor Policies set forth in Section 184.94.
		(6)	The Mobile Food Facility has not operated in the permitted Location for a period of six (6) months or more.
	(b)	The Director also may suspend or revoke a permit if he or she determines that the public interest necessitates use of the Mobile Food Facility Location for a different public purpose, such as a bicycle lane, traffic reconfiguration, bulb-out, bus-stop, or other pedestrian, bicycle, vehicular safety measure consistent with City policies. If a permit is revoked or suspended for this purpose, the Director, under such circumstances, shall strive to authorize a temporary or permanent relocation of the Mobile Food Facility to a comparable Location. Any such authorization shall be in writing and available at the Mobile Food Facility for review by City officials.
	(c)	The Director of Health also is authorized to revoke a Certificate of Sanitation if he or she finds violations of the Health Code or State law regarding Mobile Food Facility uses. This revocation may be in addition to or separate from any action that the Director takes. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010; amended by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.98.  PENALTIES.
	(a)	If the Director determines that the permittee has exceeded the scope of the permit, either in terms of duration or area, or determines any other violation of the permit terms or conditions has occurred, the Director shall order the permittee to correct the violation within a specified time period. If any person has occupied public right-of-way without a permit, the Director shall immediately order the violator to vacate the occupied area. 
	(b)	Failure to pay any fee assessed under these provisions shall constitute good cause for immediate revocation of the permit or removal of unpermitted obstructions. 
	(c)	Criminal Penalty.
		(1)	Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Section shall be guilty of an infraction at each location where such violation occurs. Every violation determined to be an infraction is punishable by (A) a fine not exceeding $100 for the first violation within one year; (B) a fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year from the date of the first violation; (C) a fine not exceeding $500 for the third and each additional violation within one year from the date of the first violation. 
		(2)	When a government official authorized to enforce this Section has reasonable cause to believe that any person has committed an infraction in the official's presence that is a violation of this Section, the official may issue a citation to that person pursuant to California Penal Code, Part II, Title 3, Chapters 5, 5C, and 5D. 
	(d)	Civil Penalties.
		(1)	The Director may call upon the City Attorney to maintain an action for injunction to restrain or summary abatement to cause the correction or abatement of the violation of this Article, and for assessment and recovery of a civil penalty and reasonable attorney's fees for such violation. 
		(2)	Any person who violates this Article may be liable for a civil penalty, not to exceed $500 for each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, which penalty shall be assessed and recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the people of the City by the City Attorney in any court of competent jurisdiction. In assessing the amount of the civil penalty, the court may consider any one or more of the relevant circumstances presented by any of the parties to the case, including, but not limited to, the following: the nature and seriousness of the misconduct, the number of violations, the persistence of the misconduct, the length of time over which the misconduct occurred, the willfulness of the defendant's misconduct, and the defendant's assets, liabilities, and net worth. The City Attorney also may seek recovery of the attorneys fees and costs incurred in bringing a civil action pursuant to this Section. 
	(e)	Administrative Penalty. In the alternative to the criminal or civil penalties authorized by Subsections (c) and (d) of this Section, Department of Public Works officials designated in Section 38 of the Police Code may issue administrative citations for such violations. The administrative penalty shall not exceed $1,000 per day for each violation. Notwithstanding the above limitation, should a violation not be corrected as the Director has ordered or in the case of occupation without a permit, the permittee or person shall pay a penalty fee of up to $5,000 per day for each day of violation. Such penalty shall be assessed, enforced, and collected in accordance with Section 39-1 of the Police Code. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010; amended by Ord. 119-13, File No. 120193, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
SEC. 184.99.  REMOVAL OF MOBILE FOOD FACILITIES.
	(a)	Removal By Director, Public Nuisance or Emergency. The Director of Public Works is authorized to order the immediate removal of a Mobile Food Facility when, in his or her opinion, the Mobile Food Facility has no permit, constitutes a safety hazard or public nuisance, or when the presence of an emergency requires removal of the Mobile Food Facility. After notification by the Director of the removal order the Mobile Food Facility shall be removed immediately from the street area by its owner. If the owner does not remove the Mobile Food Facility immediately, the Director may order the Department to remove the Mobile Food Facility. The owner shall pay to the City the costs of removal. No Mobile Food Facility shall be placed at that location until the conditions which have caused the removal order shall have been abated to the satisfaction of said Director. 
	(b)	The Director is authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, any Mobile Food Facility placed in a street or sidewalk area in violation of any other provision of this Article. Removal shall take place no earlier than 48 hours after notice is given describing the violation(s). The notice shall be both mailed to the pushcart owner and placed in a conspicuous manner on the Mobile Food Facility, and shall contain the following: 
		(1)	The condition(s) violated,
		(2)	The date and time of posting,
		(3)	The location of the Mobile Food Facility,
		(4)	The identify of the person giving the notice,
		(5)	A statement giving notice of 48 hours to remedy the violation(s).
	(c)	Mobile Food Facilities that have been removed may be recovered within ninety (90) days from the date of seizure and upon payment of a sum equal to the cost of removing said Mobile Food Facility including a 20 percent charge for administrative costs as determined by the Department, and any costs incurred by the Department in disposing of any materials contained in the Mobile Food Facility. Costs incurred as a result of removal under this Section are in addition to any fines or penalties incurred under Section 184.96. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
SEC. 184.100.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Article or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Article or any part thereof. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more section, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective. 
(Added by Ord. 298-10, File No. 101352, App. 12/3/2010)
ARTICLE 6:
STREET IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE
Sec. 185.Definition of "Open Public Street," Etc.  Powers of Supervisors  Use of General Law Procedures.Sec. 186.Improvement  Classes Included.Sec. 187.Preliminary Order of Expediency.Sec. 188.Order Declaring Intention to Recommend.Sec. 189.Different Kinds of Work May be Included in One Proceeding.Sec. 190.Official Grade  Proceedings on Change.Sec. 191.Declaration of Intention Shall Designate District Benefited.Sec. 192.Portion of Expense Paid Out of Treasury.Sec. 193.Order Declaring Intention-Proceedings.Sec. 194.Protests  Decision of Director.Sec. 195.Action on Protest  Recommendation  Diagram.Sec. 196.Recommendation That Work be Done.Sec. 197.Proceedings by Supervisors  Delay, Extent of  Work Ordered by Ordinance.Sec. 198.Abandonment of Proceedings  Renewal.Sec. 199.Description of Assessment District Required.Sec. 199.1.Plans and Specifications Prepared.Sec. 200.Notice Inviting Bids  Procedure.Sec. 201.Bids and Award  Procedure.Sec. 202.Owners' Election to do Work.Sec. 203.Irregularities  Protest  Failure to Protest.Sec. 204.Failure of Awardee to Enter Into Contract.Sec. 205.Contract  Approval and Execution.Sec. 206.Contracts in Triplicate.Sec. 207.Noncompletion in Time  Re-Award  Liability.Sec. 208.Surety Bond.Sec. 209.Material and Labor Claims.Sec. 210.Liens  Enforcement.Sec. 211.Assignment Not to Defeat Claims.Sec. 212.Disputed Claim  Bond to Release.Sec. 213.Suits Against Surety.Sec. 214.Certificate of Completion  Supervision of Director.Sec. 215.Method of Assessment  Work Done by Owner.Sec. 216.Warrant  Form  Recordation  Lien.Sec. 217.Objection to Assessment.Sec. 218.Notice of Appeal.Sec. 219.Hearing of Appeal.Sec. 220.Jurisdiction of Supervisors.Sec. 221.Delivery of Warrant, Etc.Sec. 222.Warrant Authorizes Collection, Return Of.Sec. 223.Suit on Warrant  Parties  Time Limitations.Sec. 224.Suit to Void Assessment  Time Limitation.Sec. 225.Release of Assessment  Lost Warrant  Effect of Records.Sec. 226.Subdivision of Property  Proportionate Assessment.Sec. 227.Delinquent Assessments  Notification  Entry on Tax Bill.Sec. 228.Assessments Payable in Installments  Interest.Sec. 229.Installment Payments  Form of Bonds.Sec. 230.Effect of Failure to Execute Bond.Sec. 231.Bonds and Coupons  Recordation.Sec. 232.Deed to Purchaser if no Redemption.Sec. 233.Redemption  Disposition of Funds.Sec. 234.Director to Keep Record of Bonds.Sec. 235.Nonexecution or Invalid Bond  Lien Rights.Sec. 236.Bond May be Executed after Expiration of Time.Sec. 237.Assessment Exceeding $200.Sec. 238.Reassessment  Circumstances Under Which Made.Sec. 239.Reassessment  Procedure.Sec. 240.Substitute for Director of Public Works or City Engineer.Sec. 241.Notices and Affidavits  Service  Publication.Sec. 242.Duty of Director Regarding Publication, Posting, Etc.Sec. 243."Incidental Expenses," Definition of  Demands.Sec. 244."Street" and "Places," Definitions of.Sec. 245.Postponements of Hearings not to Affect Jurisdiction  Notice.Sec. 246.Irregularities not to Invalidate Proceedings.Sec. 247.Pending Proceeding  Construction.
SEC. 185.  DEFINITION OF "OPEN PUBLIC STREET," ETC.  POWERS OF SUPERVISORS  USE OF GENERAL LAW PROCEDURES.
	All streets, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places, public ways, property, rights of way, tidelands and submerged lands, in the City and County of San Francisco, now open or dedicated or which hereafter may be opened or dedicated to public use, and any property in said City and County for the immediate possession and use of which, as right of way required for public use, an order has or shall have been obtained pursuant to Sections 14 and 14, Article I, California Constitution, and all tidelands and submerged lands which have been or hereafter may be granted by the State of California to said City and County, shall be deemed and held to be open public streets, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places, public ways, property or rights of way owned by said City and County, for the purposes of this Article, and the Board of Supervisors of said City and County is hereby empowered to establish and change the grades of all said ways, properties and rights of way and fix the width thereof, and is hereby invested with jurisdiction to order to be done therein, thereover or thereon, either singly or in any combination, pursuant to the proceedings hereafter described, or pursuant to general law, including the Improvement Act of 1911 and the Municipal Improvement Act of 1913, and any and all of the work or improvements mentioned in this Article or in such general laws, and to issue bonds as authorized hereby or by such general laws including Improvement Act of 1911 and Improvement Bond Act of 1915. The words, public ways, when used in this Article shall be deemed to include all the existing and future property of said City and County hereinabove mentioned. The word, Supervisors, when used in this Article, will refer to the Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Amended by Ord. 201-81, App. 4/24/81)
SEC. 186.  IMPROVEMENT  CLASSES INCLUDED.
	The Supervisors, pursuant to the procedure in this Article prescribed, are hereby empowered to order the whole or any portion or portions, in either length or width, of any one or more of said public ways to be improved by or have constructed therein, thereover or thereon either singly or in any combination, any of the following work: 
	(a)	The grading or regrading, paving or repaving, planking or replanking, macadamizing or remacadamizing, graveling or regraveling, oiling or re-oiling, piling or repiling, capping or recapping, repairing or reconstruction thereof; 
	(b)	The filling of excavations therein;
	(c)	The construction or reconstruction of sidewalks, crosswalks, steps, safety zones, platforms, seats, statuary, fountains, parks and parkways, culverts, bridges, curbs, gutters, tunnels, subways or viaducts; 
	(d)	Sanitary sewers or instrumentalities of sanitation, together with the necessary outlets, cesspools, manholes, lamp holes, catch basins, flush tanks, septic tanks, disposal plants, connecting sewers, side sewers, ditches, drains, conduits, tunnels, channels and other appurtenances; 
	(e)	Drains, tunnels, sewers, conduits, culverts and channels for drainage purposes, with necessary outlets, cesspools, manholes, lamp holes, catch basins, flush tanks, septic tanks, disposal plants, connecting sewers, side sewers, ditches, drains, conduits, channels and appurtenances; 
	(f)	Viaducts, conduits, water pipes, water connections and appurtenances and subways;
	(g)	Poles, posts, wires, pipes, conduits, tunnels, lamps and other suitable or necessary appliances for the purpose of lighting said public ways or other property owned by said City and County; 
	(h)	Pipes, hydrants and appliances for fire protection;
	(i)	Breakwaters, levees, bulkheads, retaining walls and walls of rock or other material to protect said public ways and other property in said City and County from overflow by water; 
	(j)	Retaining walls, embankments and other structures necessary or suitable in connection with any of the work in this Section mentioned; 
	(k)	The planting of trees, shrubs or any other ornamental vegetation;
	(l)	The installation of appliances for regulating traffic of pedestrians and vehicles and all other traffic, together with all requisite cables, wires, conduits and all other instrumentalities necessary or proper for the operation of such appliances; 
	(m)	All other work necessary or suitable to improve the whole or any portion of said public ways;
	(n)	All other work auxiliary to any of the work above mentioned, which may be necessary or convenient for the performance of the same. 
SEC. 187.  PRELIMINARY ORDER OF EXPEDIENCY.
	Exhibit Plan or Plans. When, in the judgment of the Director of Public Works of said City and County, public interest or convenience requires that any of the work mentioned in this Article be done, the expense of the whole or any part of which is to be assessed upon private property, and said Director deems the same expedient, he may by written order declare such expediency and briefly describe such work. Said Director shall cause to be preserved in the office of the Department of Public Works in permanent and appropriate form a written record of all acts pursuant to the procedure prescribed in this Article including all orders made by him hereunder, so that at all times during business hours there shall be open to the public a complete written record of all acts pursuant hereto. All orders of said Director pursuant hereto shall be identified by his signature. Upon making any such order of expediency, said Director shall cause to be prepared exhibit plan or plans, sufficient to give reasonable notice to the owners of the property liable to be assessed of the nature and extent of the proposed work. 
(Amended by Ord. 321-69, App. 11/10/69)
SEC. 188.  ORDER DECLARING INTENTION TO RECOMMEND.
	At any time after the exhibit plan or plans for the contemplated work shall have been prepared, said Director may make an order declaring his intention to recommend to the Supervisors that they order to be done the work described in his order declaring the expediency thereof, or some part or modification of such work. 
	(a)	Designation of Contemplated Work. Said order declaring his intention shall refer to the public way affected, by its lawful or official name, or the name by which it is commonly known. When the contemplated work is not upon a public street or thoroughfare, the order shall briefly describe the property or right of way on which the work is to be done. Said order will be sufficient if it states in general terms the kind of work contemplated, such as grading, paving, sewering or other improvements, gives in general the location of the proposed improvement and refers to the exhibit plan or plans therefor, for a description of the proposed work. 
	(b)	Notice of Time of Hearing. Said order declaring the intention of said Director shall also contain a notice of the day, hour, and place when and where any and all persons having any objections to the proposed work may appear before said Director and show cause why said proposed work should not be done in accordance with said order declaring the intention of said Director. Said time shall not be less than 15 days or more than 30 days from the date of making said order of intention. 
(Amended by Ord. 321-69, 11/10/69)
SEC. 189.  DIFFERENT KINDS OF WORK MAY BE INCLUDED IN ONE PROCEEDING.
	Said Director may include in one proceeding, under one order declaring his intention and in one contract, any of the different kinds of work mentioned in this Article on any number of public ways, contiguous or otherwise, and he may except therefrom any of such work already done. 
SEC. 190.  OFFICIAL GRADE  PROCEEDINGS ON CHANGE.
	The grade to which any work shall be done shall be such as may be shown on the exhibit plan or plans therefor, or it may be done on such a grade as may formally have been established by the Supervisors. If any official grade already has been established for any of the public ways proposed to be improved, it shall be lawful for the order of said Director declaring his intention, to provide that said work shall be done to new grades or grades different from those so established, and said order shall refer to exhibit plan or plans for the description of the grade at which the work is to be done. Any property owner whose property is to be assessed to pay the costs of the proposed work may at the time fixed in said order for hearing objections appear before said Director and object to the proposed grade or proposed modification of grade. A failure to make objection at such time shall be deemed to be a waiver of all objections to the proposed grade or proposed change of grade and shall operate as a bar to any claims for damages or any subsequent action looking to the prevention of the work or the recovery of damages on account of the performance of the work to such grade or changed grade. The provisions of this Section relative to grades are alternative and do not affect other provisions of law relative to change of grade. 
(Amended by Ord. 321-69, App. 11/10/69)
SEC. 191.  DECLARATION OF INTENTION SHALL DESIGNATE DISTRICT BENEFITED.
	Said Director shall make the expense of such work chargeable upon the district in his opinion benefited by such work. In his said order declaring his intention he shall describe such district and declare it to be the district which will be benefited by such work. Such district may be described in such order by stating the exterior boundaries thereof, or by giving a description thereof according to any official or recorded map or maps, or by referring to the maps or block books customarily used by the Assessor and Tax Collector for City and County assessment or tax collection purposes, or by referring to a plat or map which shall be on file in the office of said Director at the time of making the order declaring his intention; said last mentioned plat or map shall indicate by a boundary line the extent of the territory included in the proposed district, and, if referred to as hereinabove provided for, shall govern for all details as to the extent of such assessment district. 
	When two or more public ways, not contiguous or directly connected, are to be improved under the same proceeding, such number of districts may be provided for therein as shall be deemed by said Director to be expedient. 
SEC. 192.  PORTION OF EXPENSE PAID OUT OF TREASURY.
	Said Director may, if he deem it advisable, and when there is an unexpended and unencumbered balance in any fund in the City and County Treasury which has been appropriated for such general purpose, and the written consent of the Chief Administrative Officer and Controller has been obtained, recommend to the Supervisors that not to exceed 2/3 of the expense of any of the work mentioned in this Article shall be paid out of said Treasury from such unexpended and unencumbered balance. Said Director shall state the fact of such intended recommendation in his order declaring his intention to recommend that the work be done, specifying in such order the amount so to be recommended for payment from the Treasury. 
	(a)	Procedure. If the Supervisors follow the recommendation in whole or in part they shall appropriate for such purpose, in the ordinance ordering the work, the amount so recommended, or such part thereof as they shall consent to; provided, however, that no such appropriation shall be made until the provisions of Section 86 of the Charter of said City and County shall have been complied with. The amount so to be paid from the Treasury shall be payable at such time or times as shall be specified in the notice calling for sealed proposals for the work. 
	Whenever any of the expense of such work is so ordered to be paid out of the Treasury said Director in making up the assessment provided for in this Article, shall, unless the Supervisors in said ordinance otherwise provide, and except as otherwise provided in SubSection (d) of Section 215, of this Article, first deduct from the whole expense of such work the amount so ordered to be paid out of the Treasury, and shall assess the remainder of said expense upon the parcels of land liable to be assessed therefor in the manner provided in this Article. 
	(b)	No Limitation. This Section shall not be construed as a limitation upon the power of the Supervisors to make an appropriation from the Treasury at any other time or in any other manner to pay not to exceed 2/3 of the cost of any work mentioned in this Article. 
SEC. 193.  ORDER DECLARING INTENTION-PROCEEDINGS.
	A copy of the order of said Director declaring his intention to recommend to the Supervisors that they order work to be done shall be published for one day in the official newspaper of said City and County. Such publication shall be made at least 10 days before the date fixed in said order for hearing thereon by said Director. A copy of said order shall be posted in the office of said Director at least 10 days before the date named in said order for action thereon by said Director. 
	(a)	Notice Requirements. Said Director shall cause notices of the making of said order to be conspicuously posted along all the streets within the district chargeable for the expense of the work, at not more than 300 feet in distance apart, on each street so posted, but not less than three on each street in such district. 
	No proceeding shall ever be held invalid for failure to post any street or streets, as in this Section provided, if the provision of this Section has been substantially complied with. All posting hereby prescribed must be completed at least 10 days before the day set for hearing on said order of said Director declaring his intention. 
	Said notice shall be headed "Notice of Improvement" in letters of not less than one inch in height, and shall, in legible characters, state the fact of the adoption of such order of said Director declaring his intention, its date, and shall briefly describe the work proposed to be done, and shall refer to said order of said Director for further particulars. Said notices shall also set out the proposed district to be assessed to pay the expense of such work. Said district shall be described in the same manner in which it shall be described in the order of said Director declaring his intention as provided for in Section 191 of this Article. Said notices shall also state that it is proposed to assess the property within such district to pay the total or partial expense of such work, as the case may be. Said notices shall also state that all objections to the proposed work or district or otherwise must be filed, in writing, with said Director before the day fixed in his said order for action thereon, or must be made orally on said day, or on the day to which action on said order may be postponed. The day, hour and place fixed in said order for action thereon shall also be indicated in said notices. 
	(b)	Mailing Requirements. The Secretary of the Department of Public Works shall cause to be mailed, at least 10 days prior to the hearing, postage prepaid, a copy of such order to each property owner whose name appears upon the assessment book of the City and County current at the time of the making of such order, and whose property is to be assessed for the proposed work or improvement. In case any lot, piece or parcel of land liable to be assessed for such work or improvement be assessed on such assessment book to "unknown owners," then no copy of such order need be mailed to the owner thereof. 
	The mailing of such copy of such order shall be to the address as the same appears upon the said assessment book as indicating the address of the owner of the property to be assessed for such work or improvement; and in case no such address appears upon said assessment book, then the mailing of such copy may be made either to an address designated in the last issue of the City directory having relation to a name corresponding to that of such owner, if such a name appear therein, or to an address obtainable from any other probably reliable source of information that may be conveniently available to the person performing such mailing to such owner may be made to the general delivery of the post office at the City and County. 
	The Supervisors, before ordering the contemplated work to be done or improvement made, may, if they deem it advisable, require an affidavit to be filed showing that the foregoing requirement for the mailing of such copies of the said order has been complied with. Such affidavit showing such mailing shall be conclusive of the facts therein recited. 
	Such requirement for such mailing of the copies of the order of intention shall not be deemed jurisdictional, and the failure of the said property owners, or any of them, to receive said copies of the said order, or any error or omission in relation to the said mailing of the same, shall in nowise affect the validity of the proceeding or prevent the Supervisors from acquiring jurisdiction to order the proposed work or improvement. Knowledge of the making of such order of intention acquired by any such owner, prior to the date of action thereon, in any manner other than by mailing to him a copy of such order, shall be deemed the equivalent of such mailing for all purposes to be subserved thereby. 
SEC. 194.  PROTESTS  DECISION OF DIRECTOR.
	At any time before the day fixed in said order of said Director for action thereon by said Director, any owner of, or person interested in, property liable to be assessed for the proposed work, or the duly authorized representative of such owner, or other person, in his behalf, may make written protest against the same or to the extent of the district to be assessed therefor, or both, or make any other protest with regard thereto. Such protest must be in writing, contain a description of the property in which each signer thereof is interested, sufficient to identify the same, set forth the nature of his interest therein, and delivered to the Department of Public Works of said City and County, the Secretary or a clerk of which shall endorse thereon the date of receipt thereof. No other protests or objections shall be considered by said Director, except oral protests made at the time at which said Director conducts the hearing mentioned in his said order. At the time set for hearing protests said Director may publicly postpone action on his said order from time to time, and all persons interested shall be deemed to have notice of such postponement and shall be governed thereby. The decision of said Director on all such protests shall be final and conclusive except in case of appeal to the Supervisors as in this Article hereinafter provided for. 
SEC. 195.  ACTION ON PROTEST  RECOMMENDATION  DIAGRAM.
	If any protest against such proposed work or proposed district or any other protest be sustained by said Director, he shall not thereby be prevented from commencing proceedings anew hereunder which shall embrace the same work and/or the same district or any part or parts of either or both thereof; and new proceedings may be had the same as if all such prior proceedings, no matter how many times instituted, had never been commenced. 
	If no protests be made against such proposed district, or if all protests made against the same be overruled by said Director, said Director shall accompany his recommendation to the Supervisors that the proposed work be ordered, with a diagram on which shall be delineated each separate parcel of land with the limits of such assessment district, the approximate dimensions of each such parcel, and its relative location to the work proposed to be done. The correctness of such diagram shall be certified by the City Engineer. Instead of said diagram said Director may accompany his said recommendation to the Supervisors with a description of such proposed district. 
SEC. 196.  RECOMMENDATION THAT WORK BE DONE.
	If the protests to any proposed work or proposed district or other protests be all overruled, or if no protests be made, said Director shall, within five days from the date of his action upon his said order declaring his intention, make an order recommending to the Supervisors that they order such work to be done, and said Director shall cause a copy of said last mentioned order to be transmitted to the Supervisors. 
	(a)	Appeal to Supervisors-Procedure. When any protests by persons having any interest in the property to be assessed have been overruled by said Director, an appeal may be taken separately by each such protestant to the Supervisors from the decision of such Director. Each such appeal shall be in writing, and shall be signed by each protestant participating therein with his place of residence set down opposite his signature and with a description of the property in which he is interested sufficient for identification of the same. Such appeal must be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Supervisors within 10 days from the date of said Director's order recommending to the Supervisors that the work be ordered done, and a copy of such appeal must be filed in the office of said Director of Public Works within two days after the date of filing such appeal with the Clerk of the Supervisors. No appeal shall be considered by the Supervisors unless the same be taken and perfected in the manner and within the time herein provided. 
	(b)	Order Overruling Protests. When said Director has overruled all such protests, he shall within five days after the date of such action make his order reciting such action, and therein recommend to the Supervisors that they order the proposed work to be done and approve the proposed assessment district and transmit a copy of such order to the Supervisors. 
	(c)	Hearing of Appeal-Notice. When an appeal or appeals shall have been taken as herein provided, the Supervisors shall fix a time for hearing the same. The Clerk of the Supervisors shall thereupon notify the persons filing such an appeal or appeals of the time fixed for the hearing by mailing a notice thereof, postage prepaid, addressed to each of said persons at his address as given in such notice of Appeal. The affidavit of said Clerk of said mailing shall be conclusive of the fact. 
	At the time so fixed for hearing the appeal, the Supervisors shall hear and pass upon the same. Such hearing may be continued from time to time and all persons interested shall be deemed to have notice thereof and shall be governed thereby. 
SEC. 197.  PROCEEDINGS BY SUPERVISORS  DELAY, EXTENT OF  WORK ORDERED BY ORDINANCE.
	The Supervisors, if they do not deny such appeal, may by resolution delay further proceedings in relation to the proposed work for not more than one year from the date of the adoption of such resolution. Upon petition of the appellants the Supervisors may continue with the proceedings from time to time during said period of delay. 
	Upon expiration of the period of delay so fixed by the Supervisors, said Director may again recommend to the Supervisors that the proposed work be done and the proposed district be confirmed, and thereupon the Supervisors, after notice to the appellants as provided for in Section 196 of this Article, shall order the work to be done and the boundaries of the proposed district confirmed or may declare an abandonment of all proceedings theretofore had in the manner. 
	The ordering of any proposed work and confirmation of any proposed district shall be by ordinance. 
SEC. 198.  ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS  RENEWAL.
	Said Director, at any stage of the proceedings for any proposed work, prior to action by the Supervisors upon his recommendation that they order the same done, may by order abandon any or all proceedings theretofore had in relation to such proposed work; and said Director may commence said proceedings anew and continue the same from any part of said proceedings not so abandoned. If said Director abandons any or all proceedings after his making an order of recommendation and before action thereon by the Supervisors, he shall cause notice of such fact forthwith to be transmitted to the Supervisors, and the Supervisors shall take no action upon the recommendation in such case. 
	If the Supervisors pass an ordinance ordering any proposed work pursuant to this Article, they may upon recommendation of said Director repeal such ordinance ordering work. 
	Said Director, from time to time after he has abandoned any proceedings for any proposed work pursuant to this Article, may institute and continue proceedings hereunder for the work theretofore proposed and abandoned, or for such work or modified work as he may determine the public interest or convenience requires, all in accordance with the procedure prescribed in this Article. 
SEC. 199.  DESCRIPTION OF ASSESSMENT DISTRICT REQUIRED.
	The ordinance ordering the work to be done and approving the assessment district shall contain a description of the assessment district similar to that contained in said order of said Director declaring his intention. In all other ordinances, resolutions, notices, orders and determinations, subsequent to said order of said Director declaring his intention and subsequent to the notices of hearing thereon, except the notices of recordation in the Department of Public Works of the assessment hereinafter provided for, it shall not be necessary to describe the assessment district, but it shall be sufficient to refer to said order of said Director declaring his intention for a description of the work and a description of the assessment district. 
SEC. 199.1.  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS PREPARED.
	After the Supervisors, pursuant hereto, have passed an ordinance ordering work to be done, said Director shall cause specifications, or plans and specifications be prepared for the proposed work, as shown on the exhibit plan or plans. 
(Added by Ord. 321-69, App. 11/10/69)
SEC. 200.  NOTICE INVITING BIDS  PROCEDURE.
	After the specifications, or plans and specifications have been prepared, said Director shall cause a notice to be published for two consecutive days in the official newspaper and posted conspicuously in his office for a period of not less than 10 days, inviting sealed proposals for the contemplated work. 
	(a)	Time and Place for Receiving Bids. Said notice shall invite sealed proposals for the contemplated work to be delivered to said Director at his office, or at a place to be designated by him in said notice, on a day and during an hour to be specified therein, which shall be not less than 10 days after the date of last publication of said notice as hereinabove provided and after the first day of said posting of said notice. Said notice shall contain a description of the proposed work substantially similar to that contained in the order of said Director declaring his intention to recommend that the Supervisors order the same to be done. Said notice shall also contain a reservation of the right to reject any and all bids, and shall specify the period of time within which the work is to be completed after the date of execution of the contract therefor and the amount of the bond to be given by the awardee of the contract for faithful performance, public liability, and property damage of the same. 
	Reference to the specifications, or plans and specifications for the proposed work shall also be incorporated in and notice for further information concerning the details of the proposed work. 
(Amended by Ord. 321-69, App. 11/10/69)
SEC. 201.  BIDS AND AWARD  PROCEDURE.
	All proposals shall be made upon printed forms to be prepared by said Director and furnished gratuitously upon application. 
	Every proposal made shall be accompanied by a corporate surety bond or a check certified by a responsible bank, payable to the order of said City and County for an amount not less than 10 per centum of the aggregate of the proposal, and no proposal shall be considered unless accompanied by such bond or check. 
	No person, firm or corporation shall make, file or be interested in more than one bid for the same improvement. If on the opening of bids more than one bid appears in which the same person, firm or corporation is interested, all said last mentioned bids shall be rejected. 
	On the day and during the hour specified in said notice inviting sealed proposals, said Director shall be in his office, or in the place designated by him in said notice, and all bids shall be delivered to him within the hour named in said notice. No bid not so delivered to him shall be considered. Each bid as it shall be received shall be numbered and marked "Filed" by said Director and authenticated by his signature. At the expiration of the hour stated in said notice, said Director shall publicly open, examine and declare the same and an abstract of each bid shall be recorded in a public register to be kept by said Director for such purpose. Said Director shall immediately compare the bids with the record so made, and shall thereupon or at such other time not exceeding 20 days thereafter award the contract for the work to the lowest reliable and responsible bidder, except as otherwise herein provided. Notice of such award shall be caused to be posted for five days by said Director in some conspicuous place in the office of the Department of Public Works and such notice shall be published once in the official newspaper. Said Director may reject any and all bids and may reject the bid of any bidder who has been delinquent or unfaithful in any former contract with said City and County and must reject all bids other than the bid of the lowest reliable and responsible bidder; and, on accepting said lowest bid, he shall thereupon return to the proper parties the bonds or checks corresponding to the bids so rejected. If all the bids are rejected said Director shall return all the bonds or checks to the proper parties and may again invite sealed proposals for the proposed work as in the first instance. 
	The bond or check accompanying the accepted bid shall be held by said Director until the contract for doing said work as hereinafter provided has been entered into, either by said lowest bidder, or by owners as hereinafter provided, whereupon said corporate surety bond or certified check shall be returned to said bidder. If said bidder fails, neglects or refuses to enter into a contract to perform the work as in this ordinance hereinafter provided then the corporate surety bond or certified check accompanying his bid and the amount therein mentioned shall be declared by order of said Director to be forfeited to said City and County, and the proceeds thereof shall be collected by the Treasurer and paid into the treasury of said City and County and credited to the item or items of the annual appropriation for the improvement of streets and sewers, unless said Director, or the Supervisors on appeal, duly remit such forfeiture. 
SEC. 202.  OWNERS' ELECTION TO DO WORK.
	The owners of at least  of the assessable area of the assessment district shall not be required to present sealed proposals, but may upon making an oath that they are such owners, within 10 days after the publication of the notice of award, elect to enter into a written contract with said director to do the whole work specified in said award at the price or prices at which the same has been awarded. 
	Should such owners not enter into such a contract for said work within said time the awardee to whom the contract has been awarded shall enter into a contract for said work within seven days after the expiration of the time within which said owners might have entered into a contract for the same. 
SEC. 203.  IRREGULARITIES  PROTEST  FAILURE TO PROTEST.
	At any time within five days from the date of the publication of the notice of award hereunder of a contract for work, any owner of, any other person having any interest in, any parcel of land liable to be assessed for such work, who claims that any of the previous acts or proceedings relating to said work are irregular, defective, erroneous or faulty, may file in the office of said Director of Public Works a written notice specifying in what respect or respects said acts or said proceedings are irregular, defective, erroneous or faulty. Said notice shall state that it is made pursuant to this Section, and shall contain the address of the person filing the same, and a description of the property owned by or in which he is interested sufficient to identify the same. 
	All objections to any act or proceeding occurring prior to the time within such objections are permitted to be filed in relation to said work, not made in writing and in the manner and at the time aforesaid, shall be deemed waived. 
SEC. 204.  FAILURE OF AWARDEE TO ENTER INTO CONTRACT.
	If the original awardee fails or refuses, for 17 days after the publication of the notice of award, to enter into the contract, when the same in due form has been presented to him for execution by said Director, then said Director, without further proceedings shall again advertise for and receive bids, as in the first instance, and award the contract for the work to the then lowest reliable and responsible bidder. Should no bids be received in response to such second call, said Director may again advertise for and receive bids under the same proceedings at any time within six months from the time set for the first reception of bids, and let the contract to the then lowest reliable and responsible bidder, and such delay shall in no way affect the validity of any of the proceedings or assessments levied thereunder. The bids of all persons and the election of all owners aforesaid, who have failed to enter into a contract as in this Article provided, shall be rejected in or upon any bidding subsequent to the first bidding for such work. 
SEC. 205.  CONTRACT  APPROVAL AND EXECUTION.
	Every contract in this Article referred to shall be executed by said Director on behalf of said City and County. The Chief Administrative Officer of said City and County shall also approve by his signature every such contract which involves the expenditure of over $2,000. Whenever in any such contract the City and County is obligated to pay any portion of the contract price, the Controller also shall approve such contract by his signature. 
SEC. 206.  CONTRACTS IN TRIPLICATE.
	Every contract entered into by said Director, pursuant to the provisions of this Article, shall be signed by the other contracting party. Every such contract shall be signed in triplicate by all parties. One of said triplicates, together with the specifications or plans and specifications, as the case may be, of the work to be done under such contract, shall be kept in the office of said Director; another of said triplicates, with such plans and specifications, shall be delivered to the contractor or contracting owners referred to in Section 202 of this Article, and the third triplicate shall be delivered to the Controller. 
	(a)	Surety Bond or Certified Check Required. At the time of execution of the contract by the contractor, or said contracting owners, he or they, as the case may be, shall execute to said City and County, and deliver with the contract, a bond in a sum named in the notice calling for bids, executed by a surety company authorized to do business in this state, or they shall deposit with said Director a certified check upon some solvent bank for said amount, all for the faithful performance of the contract. 
	The contract shall specify the time within which the work shall be completed, which shall be the same as that specified in the notice inviting bids therefor. Said Director may by order grant extensions of time within which to complete the work. 
	(b)	Extension of Time and Liquidated Damages. An extension of time may be granted after the expiration of the time fixed in the contract, or as extended as herein provided, and the extension so granted shall be deemed to commence and be effective from the date of such expiration. 
	Failure of said Director to grant an extension or extensions of time as herein provided for shall not affect the rights of the contractor beyond a reasonable deduction from the contract price for any damage sustained by reason of delay in the performance of the contract. 
	No such extension or extensions of time granted by said Director for completion of the work shall operate to relieve any surety or sureties on any bond from the liabilities assumed in or by such bond; nor shall any assignment of the contract qualify or change any such liability. 
	The contract shall provide for the payment of agreed liquidated damages by the reduction in the amount of assessment to the property owners within the assessment district for every calendar day after the expiration of the date fixed in the contract for completion of the work, or as extended as herein provided, during which such work shall not have been completed. 
(Amended by Ord. 171-62, App. 6/27/62)
SEC. 207.  NONCOMPLETION IN TIME  RE-AWARD  LIABILITY.
	If the owners or the awardee, who have entered into such a contract, do not complete the same within the time limited in the contract, or such extended time as in this Article provided for, said Director may re-award the whole or the unfinished portion of said work, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedure in this Article prescribed for inviting proposals and awarding the contract. In such event, said owners or awardee shall be debarred from again entering into a contract to do said work or the unfinished portion thereof. 
	If said owners or the awardee fail or refuse to complete the contract entered into, and said Director re-awards the whole work or the incomplete portion thereof at a price in the aggregate exceeding that at which the work was originally awarded, the bond for faithful performance of the contract, in this Article hereinbefore provided for, shall be liable for any excess, resulting from such failure or refusal, of any assessment levied against any parcel of land for the expense of the work over what it would have been, had the original contract been performed; provided the original contract has not been canceled by ordinance of the Supervisors. 
SEC. 208.  SURETY BOND.
	Every contractor, including contracting owners, to whom is awarded a contract for street work hereunder, shall upon the execution of such contract file with said Director a bond, approved by him, in a sum not less than  of the total amount payable under the contract; such bond shall be executed by an authorized corporate surety able to justify in the manner provided by law; such bond must provide that if the contractor, or his, its or their sub-contractors, fail to pay for any materials or provisions, or the reasonable rental value of items, implements or machinery used in, upon, for or about the performance of the work contracted to be done, or for any work or labor of any kind done directly thereon or therefor, that the surety will pay the same, to an amount not exceeding the sum specified in such bond. 
SEC. 209.  MATERIAL AND LABOR CLAIMS.
	Any laborer, materialman, person, company or corporation furnishing any of the items mentioned in Section 208 of this Article used in, upon, for or about, or contributing to, the performance of the work contracted to be done, and whose claim has not been paid may, at any time within 10 days from the date of recordation of the assessment in the Department of Public Works, file in said department a verified statement of his, its or their claim, together with a statement that the same or some part thereof has not been paid. 
SEC. 210.  LIENS  ENFORCEMENT.
	Every person and corporation entitled to the benefit of Sections 208 and 209 of this Article shall severally have a first lien against the assessment, any partial assessment, any reassessment and any bonds issued to represent any such assessment or reassessment, which lien may be enforced in the Superior Court. in and for said City and County, according to the custom and practice of such court. Such action must be commenced within 30 days from the date of filing such verified statement. 
SEC. 211.  ASSIGNMENT NOT TO DEFEAT CLAIMS.
	No assignment by the contractor of the whole or any part of the money or of such assessment, partial assessment, reassessment and/or bonds due or to become due him under the contract, or for extras in connection therewith, whether made before or after such verified claim is filed, shall be held to take priority over claims filed under Sections 209 and 210, inclusive, of this Article, and all such assignments shall have no effect in so far as claims hereunder are concerned. 
SEC. 212.  DISPUTED CLAIM  BOND TO RELEASE.
	If any person or corporation against whom any such claim is filed shall dispute its correctness or validity said Director may permit the contractor to whom the contract was awarded by said Director, or his assignee, to deliver to him a bond executed by a corporation authorized to issue surety bonds in the State of California, in a penal sum equal to 1 times the amount of such claim; said bond shall guarantee the payment of whatever sum such claimant may recover in an action on said claim. Upon the filing of such a bond, said Director may release such moneys, assessments, partial assessments, reassessments and/or bonds to which such contractor, or his assignees, otherwise shall be entitled. The sureties upon such last mentioned bond shall be jointly and severally liable, with the sureties upon the bond mentioned in Section 208 of this Article to such claimant. 
SEC. 213.  SUITS AGAINST SURETY.
	Suits against the surety or sureties on the bonds mentioned in Sections 208 to 212, inclusive, of this Article may be brought by any claimant or his assigns, at any time after the claimant has ceased to perform labor or furnish materials or both and until the expiration of 150 days after the period within which verified claims may be filed as in this Article provided. The filing of such a verified claim shall not be a condition precedent to the maintenance of an action against the surety or sureties on the bond mentioned in Section 208 of this Article and an action on said bond may be maintained independently of any other action whatsoever. Upon the trial of any action mentioned in Sections 208 to 213, inclusive, of this Article the court shall award to the prevailing party a reasonable attorney's fee to be taxed as costs. 
SEC. 214.  CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION  SUPERVISION OF DIRECTOR.
	All work in this Article provided for must be done under the supervision and to the satisfaction of said Director; and said Director shall require all materials used in such work to be in accordance with the specifications therefor; and all contracts provided for in this Article must contain a provision to the effect hereinbefore in this Section set forth, and also a provision to the effect that in no case, except where it is otherwise provided in this Article, or the Charter of said City and County, will said City and County or any department or official thereof, be liable for any portion of the expense of said work, or for any damages resulting in the course of the performance thereof, or for any delinquency of persons or of property assessed. 
	When any such work shall have been completed to the satisfaction of said Director, he shall so declare by certificate, which shall be made a permanent part of the records of his office, and thereupon he shall cause to be delivered to the contractor a duplicate of such certificate. 
SEC. 215.  METHOD OF ASSESSMENT  WORK DONE BY OWNER.
	When any work in, upon or over any public way shall have been completed according to contract, as herein provided for, said Director shall make an assessment to cover the sum due for the work performed and specified in said contract (including all incidental expenses), in conformity with the provisions of this Article. The assessment shall briefly refer to the contract, the work contracted for and performed, and shall show the amount to be paid therefor, together with any incidental expenses, the amount of each assessment, the name of the owner of each lot (if known to said Director, and if not known the word "unknown" shall be written opposite the number of the lot and the amount assessed against it), and the number of each lot assessed; and said assessment shall have attached thereto a diagram exhibiting the public ways or public way crossings on, in or over which the work has been done, and showing the relative location of each distinct lot to the work done, numbered to correspond with the numbers in the assessment. A mistake in the name of the owner shall not invalidate any assessment. 
	All incidental expenses incurred in connection with the work must be paid to said Director before the issuance of the warrant, assessment and diagram herein provided for. 
	(a)	Assessment on Frontage Basis in Certain Cases. Where any work mentioned in this Article (manholes, lampholes, cesspools, culverts, crosswalks, piling and capping excepted) is done on either or both sides of the center line of any street for one block or less and further work of the same class opposite to the work already done is ordered to be done to complete the unimproved portion of said street, the assessment to cover the total expense of said work so ordered shall be made upon the lots or portions of lots only fronting the portions of the work so ordered. 
	Where the sidewalk area of any portion of a street has been officially abolished in whole or reduced in part, and paving or other improvement of the roadway of such street has been extended to the inner line of the said area so abolished, the lot or lots fronting such abolished or reduced sidewalk area shall be additionally assessable for the costs and expenses of such extended paving or other improvement. 
	(b)	Assessment According to Estimate of Benefits. Immediately after the contractor has fulfilled his contract to the satisfaction of said Director, the said Director shall proceed to estimate upon the lands, lots or portions of lots within said assessment district, as shown by the diagram provided for in Section 195 of this Article, the benefits arising from such work and to be received by each such lot, portion of such lot, piece or subdivision of land, and shall thereupon assess upon and against said lands in said assessment district the total amount of the expense of such work, together with all incidental expenses, and in so doing shall assess said total sum upon the pieces, parcels, lots or portions of lots, and subdivisions of land, in said district, benefited by said work, to-wit: Upon each respectively in proportion to the benefits received by each of said several lots, portions of lots or subdivisions of land. 
	(c)	Where Portion of Street Occupied by Tracks. The expense of all work on such portion of any street required by law to be kept in order by any person, company or corporation having railroad tracks thereon, shall be borne and paid for by such person, company or corporation, and shall be included in the assessment in this Article hereinbefore provided for. The provisions of this Subsection shall be applicable to any street whereon railroad tracks have been constructed and are being maintained by the City and County; and the City and County shall pay for all street work which, if such tracks were owned by a private person or corporation, would have to be paid for by such private person or corporation. 
	(d)	Public Lands. Whenever any parcel of land belonging to the United States, the State of California, said City and County, or any public agent, mandatory, board or institution, and being in use in the performance of a public function, shall be included within the district declared by said Director, in his order declaring his intention, to be the district to be assessed to pay the expense of such work, said Director may, in his said order, declare that such parcels of land, or any of them, shall be omitted from the assessment thereafter to be made to cover the expense of such work. In the event of such declaration of omission, then the total expense of all such work shall be assessed on the remaining lots lying within such assessment district, without regard to such omitted parcels of land. If, however, said Director shall, in his said order declaring his intention, declare that said parcels of land so owned as aforesaid, or any of them, shall be included in the assessment, or if no declaration be made respecting such parcels of land, or any of them, then the respective sums which shall be assessed against said parcels of land so owned and used shall be paid out of funds in the treasury of said City and County theretofore appropriated for the purpose of street improvement; provided, however, that such assessments shall not be payable out of funds in said treasury, unless the Chief Administrative Officer and Controller of said City and County, in writing, consent thereto before said Director shall make his said order declaring his intention; provided further that all of the provisions of Section 192 of this Article must be complied with; and provided further that any such sum or sums so assessed against parcels of land so owned and used shall not be payable out of such City and County funds, when such sum or sums are paid by the owners of or bodies controlling such parcels of land. 
	(e)	Owners May Perform Grading. Any owner or owners of lots or lands fronting upon any street, the width and grade of which have been established by the Supervisors, may perform at his or their own expense (after obtaining permission from the Director of Public Works so to do but before said Director has made his order of intention to recommend grading inclusive of this) any grading upon said street, not beyond its grade as then established and thereupon may procure, at his or their own expense, a certificate from the City Engineer setting forth the number of cubic yards of cutting and filling made by him or them in said grading, and the proportions performed by each owner; provided, however, that, as to each lot, but one such certificate shall be issued for such grading; and thereafter such owner may file said certificate in the office of said Department of Public Works. Said certificate shall be recorded in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose in the office of said Department of Public Works. Whenever thereafter the Supervisors order the grading of said street, or any portion thereof, on which any grading certified as aforesaid has been done, the bids and contract must express the price by the cubic yard for grading, and such owner or owners, and his or their successors in interest, shall be entitled to credit on the assessment upon his or their lots and lands fronting on said street for grading thereof, to the amount of the cubic yards of cutting and filling set forth in his or their said certificate, at the prices named in the contract for said grading; or, if the grade meanwhile has been legally changed, only for so much of said certified work as would be required for grading to the grade as changed. Such owner or owners shall not be entitled to any credit that may be in excess of the assessment for grading upon the lots and lands owned by him or them, and proportionately assessed for the whole of said grading. Said Director shall include in the assessment for the whole of said grading upon the same grade the number of cubic yards of grading set forth in any and all certificates so recorded in said office, or for the whole of said grading to the changed grade, so much of said certified work as would be required for grading thereto, and shall enter corresponding credits, deducting the same as payments upon the amounts assessed against the lot and lands owned respectively by said certified owners and their successors in interest; but said Director shall not credit any sums in excess of the assessments for the whole of the grading, which are made upon any lots and lands fronting upon said street and belonging to any such certified owners or their successors in interest. 
	(f)	Credit for Work Other Than Grading. When any owner or owners of any lots and lands fronting on any street shall have heretofore done, or shall hereafter do any work, except grading, such street, in front of any block at his or their expense, and the Supervisors shall subsequently order any work to be done of the same class in front of the same block the work so done at the expense of such owner or owners shall be excepted from the order ordering the work to be done; but the work so done at the expense of such owner or owners shall be upon the official grade, and in condition satisfactory to the Director of Public Works at the time said order is passed. 
SEC. 216.  WARRANT  FORM  RECORDATION  LIEN.
	To said assessment shall be attached a warrant which shall be signed by said Director and countersigned by the acting Secretary of said Department of Public Works. Said warrant shall be substantially in the following form: 
	By virtue hereof the Department of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco, by the authority vested in it, does authorize (name of contractor) his (or their) agents or assigns, to demand, and receive the several assessments upon the assessment diagram hereto attached, and this shall be his (or their) warrant for the same. 
	Date 
(Name of said Director), Director of Public Works. 
	Countersigned by (name of acting Secretary of Department of Public Works), Acting Secretary of the Department of Public Works. 
	Said warrant, assessment and diagram shall be recorded in both the office of said Department of Public Works and in the office of the Recorder of said City and County. When so recorded the several amounts assessed shall be and remain a lien upon the parcels of land assessed, respectively, and such lien shall so continue until it be fully paid and discharged of record. Such lien: 
	(a)	Shall be subordinate to all special assessment liens previously imposed upon the same property, but shall have priority over all special assessment liens which may thereafter be created against said property; 
	(b)	Shall be coequal to and independent of the lien for general ad valorem real property taxes;
	(c)	Shall be prior and superior to all other liens, claims and encumbrances except (i) easements constituting servitudes upon or burdens to said lands, (ii) water rights the record title to which is held separately from the title to said lands, and (iii) restrictions of record; and 
	(d)	Shall not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of the property on account of the nonpayment of any taxes, except sale conducted to concurrently satisfy both unpaid ad valorem real property taxes and the unpaid special assessment. 
	(a)	Bond for Installment Payments. When a property owner, as in this Article provided, gives a bond, in order that said assessment may be paid in installments, the unpaid balance of such bond shall continue to be a lien upon the parcel of land against which such bond shall be given until the expiration of two years after the date when the last installment payable under said bond shall become due. From the date of recordation of any warrant, assessment and diagram pursuant to the provisions, of this Article, all persons interested in such assessment and in all property against which it shall be a lien shall be deemed to have notice of the contents of such warrant, assessment and diagram. 
(Amended by Ord. 91-81, App. 2/20/81)
SEC. 217.  OBJECTION TO ASSESSMENT.
	No objection to the correctness or legality of the assessment or other act, determination or proceeding of said Director or of any board or officer, or otherwise, up to and including said recordation of the warrant, assessment and diagram, whether such objection appear upon the face of the warrant, assessment and diagram, or not, shall be made except by appeal to the Supervisors as in this Section hereinafter provided for. 
	Upon the recordation in the office of the Department of Public Works of an assessment, diagram and warrant, as in this Article provided for, said Director shall cause notice of the recordation of the assessment, diagram and warrant to be given. Said notice shall also specify the time and place, to be fixed by said Director, when and where the protests of all persons interested in the work done or in the assessment, diagram or warrant for payment of the cost of the same, or in any property affected thereby, will be heard by the Supervisors, and shall also state that said assessment, diagram and warrant will be open to public inspection at the office of the Department of Public Works during business hours. Such notice shall be posted in the office of said Department of Public Works for not less than 10 days before the time of hearing therein mentioned, and shall be published once in the official newspaper of said City and County not less than 10 days before the time fixed for such hearing. Such notice shall also be posted in the manner provided for in Section 193 of this Article at least 10 days before such hearing. All of the provisions of Section 193 shall be applicable to such posting. In said notice, reference shall be made to the order of said Director declaring his intention, for a description of the work done and no other description thereof shall be necessary. Said notice shall also contain the description of the assessment district contained in said order of said Director. 
SEC. 218.  NOTICE OF APPEAL.
	The owners, whether named in the assessment, diagram or warrant, or not, the contractor or his assigns, and all other persons interested in the work done, or in the assessment, diagram or warrant, or in any property affected thereby, feeling aggrieved by any act or determination of the said Director or of any board or officer in relation thereto, or who claim that the work has not been performed according to the contract in a good and substantial manner, or having or making any objection whatsoever to the correctness, fairness, reasonableness or legality of, or any other objection whatsoever to, the assessment, diagram or warrant or other act, determination or proceeding of the said Director or of any board or officer, or having or making any other objection whatsoever, shall, not later than the day before the day fixed for such hearing by the Supervisors, file in the office of the Clerk of said Supervisors notice of appeal and a copy thereof in the office of the Department of Public Works. Each such notice of appeal shall contain the name and address of the appellant, and, if he be interested in any property affected by the assessment, a description of the particular property in which he is interested, together with a statement of the nature of his interest therein. Each such notice shall also state the grounds upon which his grievance, claim or objection is based, in sufficient detail to make clear the nature of his grievance, claim or objection. If no appeal be filed with the Supervisors within the time and in the manner in this Section provided, then no hearing need be had by said Supervisors as in this Article provided for. 
SEC. 219.  HEARING OF APPEAL.
	If, however, appeal be made as in this Article provided for, the Supervisors, at the time and place specified in said notice, shall consider all the appeals, protests, grievances, claims and objections filed in the manner and within the time in this Article specified, and shall hear all evidence, statements and argument offered in support thereof. Such hearing may be postponed by said Supervisors from time to time, and all persons shall be deemed to have notice of all such postponements and shall be governed thereby. 
SEC. 220.  JURISDICTION OF SUPERVISORS.
	Upon such appeal the Supervisors may remedy and correct any error or informality in the proceedings and revise and correct any of the acts or determinations of said Director relative to said work; may confirm, amend, set aside, alter, modify or correct the assessment in such a manner as to them shall seem just, and may require the work to be completed according to their directions, and may instruct and direct said Director to correct the warrant, assessment or diagram in any particular, or to make and issue a new warrant, assessment and diagram to conform to their decisions in relation thereto, at their option. 
	All the decisions and determinations of the Supervisors, upon notice and hearing as in this Article provided for, shall be final and conclusive upon all persons as to all errors, informalities and irregularities whether they do or do not appear upon the face of the warrant, assessment or diagram. 
	No assessment, warrant or diagram, after the issuance of the same, and no proceedings prior thereto, shall be held invalid by any court, or otherwise, for any error, informality, or other defect in the same, when notice of the recordation in the office of the Department of Public Works of the assessment, diagram and warrant, and of hearing with regard thereto, has been actually published as provided in Sections 217 to 220, inclusive, of this Article. 
SEC. 221.  DELIVERY OF WARRANT, ETC.
	When the time within which to appeal to the Supervisors, as in this Article provided for, has expired, said warrant, assessment and diagram shall be delivered to the contractor, or his agent or assigns, on demand, provided no appeal has been filed as in this Article provided for, but not until after the payment to said Director of the incidental expenses not previously paid. If an appeal to the Supervisors be taken within the time and in the manner in this Article provided for, then, upon the confirmation of a warrant, assessment and diagram, in connection with the work done, by the Supervisors, the same shall be delivered to the contractor, or his agents or assigns, on demand, after payment of the incidental expenses as provided in this Article. By virtue of said warrant so delivered said contractor, or his agents or assigns, shall be authorized to demand and receive the amounts of the several assessments made to cover the sum due for the work specified in the contract and assessment. 
SEC. 222.  WARRANT AUTHORIZES COLLECTION, RETURN OF.
	The warrant, after its delivery to the contractor or his assigns, shall constitute full authority to the contractor, his agent or assigns, to collect the said assessments, and they shall be free to make demands upon the owners by virtue of said warrant and to receive payment of said assessments and give receipts therefor. The warrant shall be returned to the Department of Public Works after its delivery to the contractor, or his assigns, with the written statement of all payments received upon the assessment, signed by the contractor, or his assigns, or some person on his or their behalf, and stating whether any of the assessment remains unpaid in whole or in part and the amount thereof. If the assessment is payable in installments as provided in Sections 225 to 236, inclusive, of this Article, then the fact that a bond has been given for such assessment shall be stated if such shall have been given. Thereupon the said Director shall cause the return so made to be recorded with the record of the warrant and assessment. 
SEC. 223.  SUIT ON WARRANT  PARTIES  TIME LIMITATIONS.
	At any time after 35 days from the date of the warrant, or if an appeal has been taken to the Supervisors, then at any time after five days from the decision of the Supervisors in such appeal, or after the return of a warrant which has been corrected, altered or modified as herein provided, but not less than 35 days after the date of such last mentioned warrant, the contractor or his assignee may sue the owners of, and all other persons having an interest in or encumbrance upon, the land, lots or portions thereof, affected by the assessment, and recover the amount of any assessment remaining unpaid, with interest thereon at the rate set by the Director from the date of the assessment until paid. 
	(a)	Amount of Recovery. In all cases of recovery under the provisions of this Article the plaintiff shall recover an amount equal to the unpaid assessment and accrued interest. The court may also award costs and reasonable attorney's fees. The court may award attorney's fee in addition to all taxable costs, notwithstanding the settlement or tender of settlement of the suit before recovery. The plaintiff shall also be entitled to recover as a cost of suit the expense of a title search or report, and all other necessary expenses of suit. 
	Said warrant, assessment and diagram shall be held prima facie evidence of the regularity and correctness of the assessment and of the prior proceedings and acts of said Director and Supervisors, and otherwise, upon which said warrant, assessment and diagram are based, and like evidence of the right of the plaintiff to recover the action. 
	(b)	Evidence-Judgment-Enforcement. The court in which said suit shall be commenced shall have power to adjudge and decree a lien against the lots of land assessed, and to order them to be sold on execution, as in other cases of the sale of real estate by the process of such court, and with like right of redemption within one year of such sale, but not later. In all actions brought to enforce the lien of any assessment made pursuant to the provisions of this Article the proceedings therein shall be governed and regulated by the provisions of this Article and, when not in conflict with this Article, by the Codes of this State. 
(Amended by Ord. 368-82, App. 7/30/82)
SEC. 224.  SUIT TO VOID ASSESSMENT  TIME LIMITATION.
	No suit or proceeding to set aside, avoid, annul or correct any assessment or reassessment, or to review any of the proceedings in connection therewith, or to question the validity thereof, or to enjoin the collection thereof, or the issuance of bonds representing, or secured by the same, shall be maintained unless it be commenced within 30 days after the recording of the warrant, diagram, and assessment or reassessment in the Department of Public Works, and thereafter all persons shall be barred from commencing any such action or from interposing as a defense any asserted invalidity of any such assessment or of bonds issued thereon or of any such reassessment or of bonds issued thereon. No proceedings had under this Article shall ever be held invalid on the ground that the public way, or any portion thereof, in, over or upon which the work or improvement, or any part thereof, is or shall be done, has not been, or shall not have been, lawfully dedicated or acquired, provided the same shall be lawfully dedicated or acquired, or an order of immediate possession and use thereof shall have been obtained, at any time before the entry of judgment in the suit involving such proceeding. 
SEC. 225.  RELEASE OF ASSESSMENT  LOST WARRANT  EFFECT OF RECORDS.
	The said Director shall cause to be received at any time the amounts due upon any assessment and warrant issued, and shall also cause to be given a good and sufficient discharge therefor, unless written notice be given him that suit to foreclose an assessment has been filed. 
	The said Director shall cause to be released any assessment upon the books of the Department of Public Works on the payment of the amount of the assessment, with interest to date of payment, against any lot, or on the production to said Department of Public Works of the receipt of the party to whom the assessment and warrant were issued, or his assigns. If any warrant is lost, upon proof of such loss, a duplicate may be issued, upon which a return may be made with the same effect as if the original had been so returned. Upon the return of the assessment and warrant as provided in this Article, all amounts remaining due thereon shall draw interest at the rate set by the Director until paid. Said Director shall have full power to extend the time for the return of such warrant to said department. 
	The records kept by said Director or department shall have the same force and effect as other public records, and copies thereof, duly certified by said Director or the Secretary of said department, may be used in evidence with the same effect as the originals. The said records shall, during all office hours, be open to the inspection of any person wishing to examine them, free of charge. 
(Amended by Ord. 368-82, App. 7/30/82)
SEC. 226.  SUBDIVISION OF PROPERTY  PROPORTIONATE ASSESSMENT.
	In case any parcel of land against which any assessment has been levied has been subdivided or partitioned among several owners thereof, said Director of Public Works, on the written application of any owner thereof, shall make a proportionate division of such assessment and may amend the original assessment by a proportionate distribution of the assessment upon the several subdivisions of the parcel of land originally described. Such proportionate division of an assessment shall be without prejudice to the contractor or his assigns as to any assessment made in pursuance of the provisions of this Article. Such amended assessment shall bear date the same as the original assessment. 
SEC. 227.  DELINQUENT ASSESSMENTS  NOTIFICATION  ENTRY ON TAX BILL.
	The contractor shall within 90 days of the issuance of the assessment submit to the Director of Public Works a list of all unpaid assessments, and it shall be the duty of said Director to notify the Tax Collector of each assessment that is delinquent, and the lot and block number against which such assessment is levied, and it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to note such delinquency on each annual tax bill, in accordance with Section 107 of the Charter of the City and County of San Francisco. 
SEC. 228.  ASSESSMENTS PAYABLE IN INSTALLMENTS  INTEREST.
	An assessment imposed under the provisions of this Article may, in and by the assessment provided for in Section 215 of this Article, be made payable in installments. 
	Whenever assessments are made payable in installments as aforesaid, the assessment provided for in Section 215 of this Article shall state the number of annual installments in which the assessment may be paid and the rate of interest, not over the percentum per annum set by law by the State of California, to be charged on all deferred payments. The first installment shall be payable at the time provided for in Section 229 of this Article. 
(Amended by Ord. 368-82, App. 7/30/82)
SEC. 229.  INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS  FORM OF BONDS.
	In case the owner or owners of any parcel of land against which an assessment is imposed desires to avail himself or themselves of the privilege of paying such assessment in installments, and for and in consideration of such privilege, such owner or owners, within 30 days from the date of the return of the warrant made as required by Section 222 of this Article, shall make payment to the Department of Public Works for the contractor or his assigns or other person duly authorized to receive the same, of an amount equivalent to an installment payment on such assessment determinable by the number of installments made payable thereon, which amount so paid shall be deemed a payment of the first installment such assessment under the terms of the bond hereinafter provided for, and in such bond shall be so designated. The interest payable under the terms of said bond shall be computed from the date of the assessment on which such bond is issued. Such owner or owners must, within not more than 30 days from the date of the payment hereinbefore provided for, execute and acknowledge before an officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of the conveyances of real property, and file with the Department of Public Works, a bond in triplicate, substantially in the following form: 
August 23, 1999 Bond for Street Assessment 
	State of California,
City and County of San Francisco. 
	Whereas, by proceedings duly and regularly taken, the validity and regularity whereof is hereby acknowledged and admitted, an assessment has been imposed upon the following described property, to-wit: (Description of property), and the amount of such assessment so imposed amounts to the sum of (amount of assessment) dollars; 
	Now, therefore, the undersigned, for and in consideration of the privilege given to pay such assessment in installments, hereby acknowledge (himself, herself or themselves) indebted, and promise to pay to (name of contractor) or order, said assessment in the sums, and at the times and place hereinafter set forth, to-wit: 
	Installment One-Amounting to $____________,
Date of Payment: ____________. 
	Installment Two-Amounting to $____________,
within ____________ from the date hereof. 
	Installment Three-Amounting to $    ,
within ____________ from the date hereof (each additional installment being set forth in the same manner and payable the appropriate time after the preceding numbered installment), together with interest on each of said installments at the rate of ____________ per centum per annum (being the rate fixed in the assessment issued by the Director of Public Works), until each such installment shall be paid. 
	Such interest shall be paid, as it accrues, on the dates for payment of said installments of principal. Said installments of principal and interest shall be payable at the office of the Director of Public Works at the City and County of San Francisco, in lawful money of the United States. In case (the undersigned) elect to pay all of said installments before maturity thereof (the undersigned) agree to pay, in addition to all other amounts due, six months' interest in advance. 
	In the event of default in the payment of any installment of principal or of interest according to the terms of this bond, then all of said installments of principal and all interest thereon shall become immediately due and payable and said Director is hereby authorized to sell the property herein described to pay the amount so due, together with the expenses of such sale. 
	Such sale shall be made by said Director in the manner and form provided by law for the sale of real property upon execution and after mailing to the undersigned a notice that proceedings to make such sale will be had unless payment of the amount due shall be made within 10 days from the mailing thereof. Such notice shall be deposited in the United States Post Office addressed to the addresses given in this bond or such other addresses as may be hereafter filed with said Director. 
	Or the person in legal ownership of this bond shall, in the event of such default, have the right to foreclose the lien created by the said assessment for any unpaid portion thereof the same as if no bond had been given, and such lien shall continue until such assessment and accrued interest are fully paid. The undersigned agree to pay all expenses of said foreclosure including a reasonable attorney's fee and cost of title search. 
	It is hereby expressly provided that a lien for the full amount of the sum obligated to be paid under this bond, principal, interest and costs, and expenses of foreclosure, is hereby created and acknowledged upon, in and to the real property described herein and the improvements thereon and appurtenances thereto. 
	This bond is dated ____________/____________/____________, 19____________. 
	In witness whereof ____________ set ____________ hand this ____________ day of ____________/____________/____________, 19____________. 
SEC. 230.  EFFECT OF FAILURE TO EXECUTE BOND.
	If such bond is not executed within the time and in the manner hereinabove provided for, then the whole of the assessment on which such bond would be based shall thereupon be immediately due and payable. 
SEC. 231.  BONDS AND COUPONS  RECORDATION.
	Forms of such bond shall be furnished by the Department of Public Works and thereto shall be attached appropriate coupons for the payment of the installments of principal and the interest on such bond. Such coupons respectively shall be payable to bearer at the office of the Treasurer of said City and County 30 days after the respective dates for payment of principal installments and interest by those who have executed the bond to which the coupons shall be attached. 
	(a)	Preparation and Recordation. Said Director of Public Works shall cause said bonds and coupons to be fully prepared for execution and shall supervise the execution thereof by the proper parties as hereinbefore provided for. When such bonds and attached coupons have been fully prepared and executed in the manner hereinbefore provided for and delivered to the Department of Public Works, one of said triplicates shall be recorded in the office of the Recorder of said City and County, who shall make no charge therefor; after recordation, said triplicate shall be retained in the office of said Department of Public Works; another of said triplicates shall be delivered to the contractor named therein and the other shall be delivered to the Treasurer of said City and County. 
	(b)	Record of Payments. Said Director shall cause to be kept a record of all payments received by him on said bonds and the coupons attached thereto and of all penalties accruing thereon, and upon delivering such moneys to the Treasurer said Director shall report to the Treasurer the particular bonds and coupons and penalties to be credited with such payments, so that the Treasurer will know exactly on which bonds and coupons disbursements by him of such moneys shall be made. 
	Said Director shall also cause all such payments to be entered in an appropriate book of record in his office to the credit of the appropriate bond and assessment. And every such assessment shall remain a first lien upon the property affected until said assessment and the bond based thereon, and the accrued interest thereon and the penalties, if any, thereon shall be fully paid according to the terms of said bond. 
	(c)	Execution of Bonds Evidence of Regularity. Said bonds, by their execution, shall be conclusive evidence of the regularity of all proceedings theretofore had under this Article. 
	(d)	Certificate of Sale. Said Director is hereby authorized to make any sale authorized by any such bond and shall issue for each sale an original and duplicate certificate of sale in appropriate form, referring to this Article, describing the parcel or parcels of land sold and containing the name of the Purchaser. The original shall be delivered to the Purchaser and the duplicate shall be kept on file and record in the office of said Director. 
SEC. 232.  DEED TO PURCHASER IF NO REDEMPTION.
	If the property sold, as provided in the above proceedings, be not redeemed within one year after the sale, said Director shall then issue to the party named in the original certificate, or his assignee, a deed of the property described in said certificate, which said deed shall refer, in general terms, to the proceedings under which the same is issued, and shall contain a description of the property, following the description in the certificate; the grantee in such deed is immediately upon receipt thereof entitled to possession of the property described therein. 
SEC. 233.  REDEMPTION  DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
	At any time before the expiration of one year from the date of the certificate of sale, any property sold under the provisions of the preceding Sections may be redeemed by any person having an interest in the property sold, by the payment to said Director of the amount for which property was sold, with an additional penalty of one percent per month of the amount for which the same was sold; all such redemption money shall be paid over by said Director to the Treasurer with a statement indicating the specific bond to which such money shall be credited, and the Treasurer shall pay all such redemption money to the holder of the proper original certificate of sale, upon delivering up the same and receipting for the amount received. 
SEC. 234.  DIRECTOR TO KEEP RECORD OF BONDS.
	Said Director of Public Works shall cause to be kept a record of all bonds given as herein provided, wherein shall be entered the name of the person executing the same, a description of the land described therein, the number and amount of the installments, the time when the same are due, the date and the amount of all payments and the date of all payments to the City and County Treasurer for the holders of each bond. 
SEC. 235.  NONEXECUTION OR INVALID BOND  LIEN RIGHTS.
	In case it shall appear at any time that any bond made as herein provided has not been executed by the owner or owners of the property described therein, or that for any reason any such bond is invalid, or that a sale in accordance with its terms would not convey a full and clear title to such property, then the person entitled to collect and receipt for the payment of the original assessment, or his assigns, shall have the right to foreclose the lien thereof for any unpaid portion, as such lien was originally imposed and such lien shall continue until such original assessment is fully paid. 
SEC. 236.  BOND MAY BE EXECUTED AFTER EXPIRATION OF TIME.
	The bond provided for in Section 229 of this Article may be made, executed and filed in accordance with and subject to the requirements, terms and conditions in this Article prescribed for such bond, after the expiration of the time, as therein provided for, within which to make, execute and file such bond, if the contractor to whom an assessment, payable in installments, has been issued, or his assignee, or other owner of such assessment, shall consent to the making, executing and filing of such bond after such expiration of time, and such consent shall be expressed on the back or margin of such bond. 
SEC. 237.  ASSESSMENT EXCEEDING $200.
	Anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, said Director of Public Works may in the assessment and warrant provided for in Sections 215 and 216 of this Article make each assessment which exceeds $200 payable in annual installments. No such annual installment payment shall exceed five percent of the benefit conferred on said property on which the assessment is levied measured in terms of the cost of said street improvement plus interest on the outstanding balance due. As used in this Section the term "benefit conferred" shall refer to the cost of the improvement apportioned by the said Director pursuant to Section 215(b) of this Article. 
	The dates for payment of installments on an assessment shall not extend over a period of more than 10 years from the date when the first installment will be payable. The assessment made by said Director shall state the number of installments in which the assessment payable in installments may be paid, the respective dates for payment of the several installments, and the rate of interest, not to exceed the percentum per annum set by law by the State of California, to be charged on all deferred payments. The first installment shall be payable at the time provided for in Section 229 of this Article. Every assessment and accrued interest, however, may be paid in cash at any time, unless suit has been filed thereon or unless a bond has been executed thereon. 
	(a)	Appeal Prerequisite to Court Action. No objection whatsoever relative to the making of such an assessment payable in installments as in this Section provided for, or relative to the amount of any such assessment or assessment installment, or relative to the time or manner of payment of any such assessment or assessment installment may be made in any manner or in any court or tribunal except by such party or parties as shall have appealed to the Supervisors in the manner provided for in Section 217 of this Article. All persons who have not so appealed to the Supervisors shall be deemed to have waived every objection in this Section referred to. 
	(b)	Assessment Amended or Reassessment Made. Any assessment which violates any of the provisions of this Section or Section III of the Charter of said City and County may be amended or corrected, in the manner in this Article provided for the amendment or correction of an assessment, or a reassessment may be made as in this Article provided for, in order that such original assessment may be made to conform to this Section and Section III of said Charter. 
(Amended by Ord. 368-82, App. 7-30-82)
SEC. 238.  REASSESSMENT  CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH MADE.
	Whenever any assessment heretofore made or issued or filed or which may be hereafter made, issued or filed pursuant to this Article or any other ordinance is or shall be void or unenforceable, for any cause, or if bonds shall have been or shall be, issued to represent or be secured by any assessments and such issuance shall not have been, or shall not be, effective through the curative provisions in relation thereto, then, in any of such events, a reassessment therefor may be issued. The true intent and meaning of this Section is to make the cost and expense of work or improvement made through an attempted compliance with this Article, payable by the real estate benefited by such work or improvement by making a reassessment therefor. 
	Such power of reassessing embraces both a full and a partial reassessment, and is not exhausted by a single attempted exercise thereof. 
	A reassessment shall be ordered by the Board of Supervisors under any one of four circumstances. 
	(a)	Request of Holder. Where the owner or holder of any assessments, or bonds issued under this Article to represent or be secured by assessments, or the person who would own or hold any such assessment or bonds if the same were issued, requests the Supervisors to order a reassessment. In such event, if said Supervisors be of the opinion that the assessments or bonds in question are not enforceable, they shall order the making and issuing of a reassessment covering only the assessments owned or held by the petitioner, or the assessments represented or secured by the bonds owned or held by such petitioner, or which would be owned or held by petitioner if issued. 
	(b)	Unenforceable Lien by Court Decree. Whenever any court of competent jurisdiction in any suit to foreclose the lien of any assessment or to enforce the obligation of any bond issue to represent or be secured by any assessments issued under this Article, has for any reason held such lien unenforceable, then it shall in and by its decree direct the making of a reassessment to cover the assessments involved in such suit. 
	(c)	Voidance by Court Decree. Whenever any court of competent jurisdiction in any suit to set aside the lien of any assessment or of any bond representing any assessment, or in any suit to quiet title against the lien of any such assessment, or bond, or in any suit to enjoin the making, filing, conformation or issuance of any assessment or bond to pay for the cost and expense of any work done hereunder, shall in its judgment decree such assessments or bonds to be void, or unenforceable, or shall enjoin the making, filing or issuance of conformation of any such assessment or bond, then it shall, in and by its decree, direct the making of a reassessment to cover the assessments involved in such suit. 
	(d)	Payment for Work Done Under Void Proceedings. Whenever any contractor or assignee of a contractor shall have done or performed any work or improvements pursuant to proceedings had and taken in attempted compliance with the provisions of this Article, and whenever prior to the issuance of any assessment, any court of competent jurisdiction in any suit to invalidate the contract or any of such proceedings shall for any reason declare said contract or other proceedings to be invalid, then such court shall, in and by its decree, direct the making of an assessment for the reasonable value of the work and improvement actually done and performed in good faith by the contractor, or such portion thereof as was of a kind that could lawfully have been ordered under the provisions of this Article. 
SEC. 239.  REASSESSMENT  PROCEDURE.
	The manner of making, issuing and enforcing the reassessments shall be as follows: 
	Said Director of Public Works shall, upon the entering of a decree of court directing a reassessment or upon the making of an order by the Supervisors directing a reassessment, proceed to make a reassessment in the following manner: 
	(a)	Partial Reassessment. If the reassessment be a partial one only, then it shall not be necessary for the diagram to show any other lots than the ones covered by such partial reassessment. 
	(b)	Full Reassessment. If it be a full reassessment, however, then said Director shall prepare and file with the reassessment a diagram showing the lots, pieces or parcels of land deemed by him to have been benefited by the work or improvement. 
	(c)	Fixing Boundaries. Upon any reassessment as in this Article provided for, said Director and the Supervisors shall have unlimited power to fix the boundaries of the district to be charged with the expense of the work in accordance with the benefits of the work to property as such benefits, at the time of reassessment, shall appear to said Director or the Supervisors, and to make the boundaries of such district either the same as they theretofore were or different from the boundaries of the district specified in said Director's declaration of intention. 
	(d)	Amount of Reassessment. It is the intent hereof that upon any such reassessment said Director and/or the Supervisors then shall have full power to determine what district and property have been benefited by the work and to make the reassessment accordingly. The reassessment shall assess upon and against each of the lots, pieces or parcels of land contained therein an amount arrived at as follows: The benefits derived, or to be derived by each of the said lots, pieces or parcels of land from the work or improvement, estimated as of the date of the filing in the office of the Department of Public Works of the original assessment, shall first be listed. Then there shall be added thereto interest thereon from the date of filing the original assessment in the Department of Public Works at the rate set by the Director, and the total sums shall constitute and be the amount of the proposed several assessments in such reassessment. The total of such reassessments, however, exclusive of interest, shall not exceed the cost and expenses of the work or improvement. 
	(e)	Procedure. Such assessment need not be in any prescribed form, but shall refer to the original assessment filed, give the date of filing of said original assessment and state that it is made pursuant to the order of the Supervisors or decree of the court, as the case may be, and shall be accompanied by a diagram showing the lots to be reassessed and their relation to the work. It shall then be presented to the Supervisors, who shall fix a time for hearing before them. Such time must be at least 20 days after the reassessment is so presented. The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors shall then advertise the time of such hearing before the Supervisors by publishing a notice once in the official newspaper. Said Clerk shall also mail notice of such hearing as provided for in Section 193 of this Article. But this requirement as to mailing notice shall have no greater effect than that provided for in said Section 193 of this Article. And a description of the district shall be set forth in the notice. 
	(f)	Hearing of Objections. At the time fixed for said hearing, or at such time or times to which the same may be thereafter adjourned, the Supervisors shall consider the objections to said reassessment and in their discretion informally direct the revision, correction or modification of such reassessment in such manner as is most equitable to apportion to each lot, piece or parcel of land hereby benefited the amount of the actual benefits derived from said improvement. When such reassessment shall have been revised, or corrected, or modified so as to comply with the judgment of said Supervisors, then they shall pass a resolution confirming the reassessment. The said Director of Public Works shall thereupon record the reassessment with a certificate at the end thereof by the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors. Said Director shall also note opposite the several assessments in the original assessment that have been displaced, the fact that the reassessment has been made, giving its date, and shall credit upon such reassessment all payments theretofore made upon the original assessment, or upon the bonds issued to represent the same, together with interest on such payments at the rate set by the Director, from and after the date of such payments. Such reassessment shall be collectible and payable in the same manner as an original assessment and shall be enforceable by suit in the same manner provided in this Article for enforcing an original assessment, and shall have the same weight in evidence. In the event that bonds shall have been issued under or upon the security of the original assessment, they shall also issue upon the reassessment for such sum as may be reassessed against the lots, pieces or parcels of land covered thereby. 
	(g)	Cancellation of Original Assessment. When the reassessment is recorded the original assessment shall be cancelled by said Director so far as the reassessment affects the original assessment involved. New bonds shall not be issued until the original bonds are delivered up to the City and County Treasurer, who shall cancel the same. The lien of such reassessment shall hold its relative rank as to other special assessment liens as of the date of filing of the original assessment. 
	(h)	Costs and Expenses. In the event such work or improvement made in attempted compliance with this Article is fully completed to the satisfaction of said Director, then it shall be the duty in any event of said Director to make and file an assessment for costs and expenses thereof so as to form the basis of a reassessment, even though such assessment should be unenforceable. 
(Amended by Ord. 368-82, App. 7/30/82)
SEC. 240.  SUBSTITUTE FOR DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS OR CITY ENGINEER.
	If the Director of Public Works, for any reason whatsoever, may not perform any of the duties or functions by this Article imposed upon him, or if it becomes inconvenient for him to perform any such duties or functions, then, in every such case, such duties and functions may be performed by the City Engineer in said Department of Public Works, as a substitute for said Director, or, in any such case, said duties and functions may be performed by anyone in said Department designated by the Chief Administrative Officer of said City and County. The duties and functions hereby imposed upon said City Engineer may be performed by anyone else in said Department designated by said Director. Whenever such a substitute shall act, either for said Director or for said City Engineer, the records of said Department shall include a written designation by said Chief Administrative Officer or said Director, as the case may be, appointing such substitute. Such designation shall indicate the period during which such substitute shall be authorized so to act. Such written designation shall be conclusive of all facts therein recited, and all acts of such substitutes, respectively, shall have the same validity as if they had been performed by said Director or said City Engineer, as the case may be. 
SEC. 241.  NOTICES AND AFFIDAVITS  SERVICE  PUBLICATION.
	Notice in writing required to be given by said Director may be served by any person over the age of 21 years, and the fact of such service may be verified by the oath of the person making it. Such oath may be taken before said Director or the acting Secretary of said Department of Public Works. 
	All notices and resolutions required by this Article to be published shall be published in the official newspaper. 
	All notices herein required to be served, whether by delivering, mailing or posting, may be so served by any citizen of the age of 21 years or over, and his affidavit thereof shall be prima facie evidence of such service. The affidavit of the publisher of the local newspaper or his clerk, of the publication of any notice required in this Article to be published, shall be prima facie evidence of such publishing. 
SEC. 242.  DUTY OF DIRECTOR REGARDING PUBLICATION, POSTING, ETC.
	Whenever any resolution, order, notice or determination is required to be published or posted, and the duty of posting or procuring the publication or posting of the same is not specifically enjoined upon any officer of the City and County, it shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to procure the publication or posting, as the case may be. No proceeding or step herein shall be invalidated or affected by any error or mistake or departure herefrom as to the officer or person posting, or procuring the publication or posting, of any resolution, notice, order or determination hereunder when the same is actually published or posted for the time herein required. 
SEC. 243.  "INCIDENTAL EXPENSES," DEFINITION OF  DEMANDS.
	The term "incidental expenses," as used in this Article, shall include the cost of engineering work; also, the cost of legal services; also, the cost of printing and advertising as provided in this Article, including the estimated cost of printing any bonds to be issued to represent or be secured by unpaid assessments: also the cost of superintendence of the work mentioned in this Article; also the expenses of making the assessment and of typing and preparing the resolutions, notices and other papers and proceedings for any work authorized by this Article; also the expenses of making any analysis and tests to determine that the work and any materials or appliances incorporated therein comply with the specifications; and any other expense incidental to the construction, completion and inspection of the work in the manner in this Article provided for. All demands for incidental expenses mentioned in this Section shall be presented to the Director of Public Works, by an itemized bill, duly verified by oath of the defendant. 
(Amended by Ord. 91-81, App. 2/20/81)
SEC. 244.  "STREET" AND "PLACES," DEFINITIONS OF.
	The word "street," as used in this Article, shall be deemed to, and is hereby declared to include avenues, highways, lanes, alleys, crossings or intersections, courts and places, which have been dedicated and accepted according to law or in common and undisputed use by the public for a period of not less than five years next preceding. The word "places," as used in this Article, shall be deemed to, and is hereby declared to include any public park or pleasure ground and common which has been dedicated and accepted according to law, and this Article shall include the improvement of a park, public pleasure ground and common. 
SEC. 245.  POSTPONEMENTS OF HEARINGS NOT TO AFFECT JURISDICTION  NOTICE.
	Whenever in proceedings in this Article provided for, a time and place for hearing by the Director of Public Works or the Supervisors is fixed and, from any cause, the hearing is not then and there held or regularly adjourned to a time and place fixed, by the power of said Director or Supervisors in the premises shall not thereby be divested or lost, but said Director or Supervisors may proceed anew to fix a time and place for the hearing, and cause notice thereof to be given by publication by at least one insertion in the official newspaper, such publication to be at least five days before the date of the hearing, and thereupon said Director or Supervisors shall have power to act as in the first instance. 
SEC. 246.  IRREGULARITIES NOT TO INVALIDATE PROCEEDINGS.
	This Article shall be liberally construed to the end that its purposes may be effected. No error, irregularity, informality, and no neglect or omission of any officer of the City and County, in any procedure taken as in this Article provided, shall void or invalidate such proceeding or any assessment for the cost of work done as in this Article provided. The exclusive remedy of any person affected or aggrieved thereby shall be by appeal to the Supervisors as provided in this Article. 
SEC. 247.  PENDING PROCEEDING  CONSTRUCTION.
	Any proceedings for street work heretofore commenced under any method or system provided by any Charter of said City and County, or by act of the Legislature, or by ordinance of said City and County, shall not be affected by this Article but may be continued until completion by and under the method provided by the Charter, law or ordinance under which they were originally commenced, or they may be abandoned by order of said Director of Public Works and instituted under the proceedings provided for in this Article, in case no contract for the work or improvement has been entered into. 
ARTICLE 6.1:
IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE CODE
SUBARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONSSUBDIVISION 1
APPLICATION AND EFFECTSec. 250.001.Short Title.Sec. 250.002.Assessment Proceedings.Sec. 250.003.Pending Proceedings.Sec. 250.004.Alternative Procedures.Sec. 250.005.Procedure Code Not Exclusive.Sec. 250.006.Titles.Sec. 250.007.Code Superior.Sec. 250.008.Municipal Affairs.Sec. 250.009.State Affairs.Sec. 250.010.Single Proceeding.Sec. 250.011.Subarticles Supplemental.SUBDIVISION 2
DEFINITIONSSec. 250.015.Acquisition.Sec. 250.016.Block.Sec. 250.017.Charter.Sec. 250.018.City.Sec. 250.019.Clerk.Sec. 250.020.Contractor.Sec. 250.021.Board.Sec. 250.022.Director.Sec. 250.023.General Law.Sec. 250.024.Improvement.Sec. 250.025.Lot, Etc.Sec. 250.026.Owner.Sec. 250.027.Parking Place.Sec. 250.028.Paved.Sec. 250.029.Person.Sec. 250.030.Place.Sec. 250.031.Project.Sec. 250.032.Street.Sec. 250.033.Street Superintendent.Sec. 250.034.Transit System.Sec. 250.035.Treasurer.Sec. 250.036.Work.SUBDIVISION 3
INCIDENTAL EXPENSESSec. 250.040.Acquisition.Sec. 250.041.Improvement.SUBDIVISION 4
REFERENCESSec. 250.045.Resolution of Intention.Sec. 250.046.Reference to Resolution of Intention.SUBDIVISION 5
NOTICESSec. 250.050.Notices When Expressly Provided.Sec. 250.051.Failure to Designate Officer.Sec. 250.052.Publication.Sec. 250.053.Posting and Mailing.Sec. 250.054.Where Posted.Sec. 250.055.Mailing.Sec. 250.056.Notice of Improvement.Sec. 250.057.Certificates.SUBDIVISION 6
PUBLIC AND UTILITY PROPERTYSec. 250.065.May Omit Public Property.Sec. 250.066.Cost on Remaining Property.Sec. 250.067.Payment.Sec. 250.068.Utility Property.SUBDIVISION 7
CONTRIBUTIONS AND ADVANCESSec. 250.070.Contributions.Sec. 250.071.Purchase of Assessment, Warrant and Bonds.Sec. 250.072.ID.Payment.Sec. 250.073.ID.Bonds.Sec. 250.074.ID.City.Sec. 250.075.ID.Subsequent Purchase.Sec. 250.076.Purchase and Sale of Delinquent Property.Sec. 250.077.ID.Sale.Sec. 250.078.Advanced by City Without Bonds.Sec. 250.079.Reimbursement.Sec. 250.080.ID.Notice of Installment Payment.Sec. 250.081.ID.Payment.SUBDIVISION 8
REVOLVING FUNDSSec. 250.085.Revolving Fund.Sec. 250.086.Procedure.SUBDIVISION 9
ASSESSMENT AND DIAGRAMSec. 250.090.Assessment.Sec. 250.091.Inclusion of Other Special Assessments.Sec. 250.092.Credit for Contribution of Money, Land, Easements or Improvements.Sec. 250.093.Diagram.SUBARTICLE II
GENERAL PROCEDURESUBDIVISION 1
PROTESTSSec. 250.100.Protests.Sec. 250.101.Form.Sec. 250.102.Legality.Sec. 250.103.Majority Protests.SUBDIVISION 2
HEARINGSSec. 250.105.Time.Sec. 250.106.Hearing.Sec. 250.107.Continuances.SUBDIVISION 3
MODIFICATIONSSec. 250.110.Modifications.Sec. 250.111.Notice.Sec. 250.112.Protests.Sec. 250.113.Order.Sec. 250.114.Record.Sec. 250.115.Lien.SUBDIVISION 4
SUPPLEMENTAL ASSESSMENTSec. 250.120.Supplemental Assessment.Sec. 250.121.How Levied.Sec. 250.122.Notice and Order.Sec. 250.123.Payment.Sec. 250.124.Nonfixed Lien.SUBDIVISION 5
REAPPORTIONMENT OF BENEFITSSec. 250.130.Determination.Sec. 250.131.Procedure.Sec. 250.132.Method.Sec. 250.133.Formulae.SUBARTICLE III
CURATIONSUBDIVISION 1
CURATIONSec. 250.135.Constitutionality.Sec. 250.136.Waiver.Sec. 250.137.Orders Final.Sec. 250.138.Notice of Award.Sec. 250.139.Liberally Construed.Sec. 250.140.Validity.Sec. 250.141.Effect of Publication.Sec. 250.142.Dedication.Sec. 250.143.Limitation of Actions.Sec. 250.144.ID.Nonfixed Lien.Sec. 250.145.ID.Defense.Sec. 250.146.Validating Procedure.Sec. 250.147.Procedure.SUBDIVISION 2
RE-ASSESSMENTSec. 250.150.Re-Assessment.Sec. 250.151.Uncompleted Improvement.Sec. 250.152.When and How Much.Sec. 250.153.Interest.Sec. 250.154.Payment.SUBARTICLE IV
LIENSUBDIVISION 1
NATURE AND EXTENTSec. 250.160.Priority of Liens.Sec. 250.161.Duration of Liens.Sec. 250.162.Nonfixed Lien Bonds.Sec. 250.163.Priority of Nonfixed Lien Assessment Levies.SUBARTICLE V
ACQUISITION, IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE DISTRICT PROCEDURESUBDIVISION 1
INVESTIGATION PROCEEDINGSSec. 250.170.Necessity of Improvement.Sec. 250.171.Preliminary Determination of Necessity.Sec. 250.172.Notice and Hearing.Sec. 250.173.Objections.Sec. 250.174.Final Determination of Necessity.Sec. 250.175.Modification.Sec. 250.176.Jurisdiction.Sec. 250.177.Nonapplication.Sec. 250.178.Finality.Sec. 250.179.Notice of AssessmentFixed Lien Assessments.Sec. 250.180.ID.Other Assessments.SUBDIVISION 2
IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1911Sec. 250.185.Powers.Sec. 250.186.Cash Assessments, Alternative Collection.Sec. 250.187.ID.Resolution, Contents.Sec. 250.188.ID.Filing.Sec. 250.189.ID.Extension on Roll.Sec. 250.190.ID.Collection.Sec. 250.191.ID.Payment to Contractor.Sec. 250.192.ID.Default.Sec. 250.193.ID.Resale.Sec. 250.194.ID.No Bidder.SUBDIVISION 3
RESERVEDSUBDIVISION 4
MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1913Sec. 250.210.Powers.Sec. 250.211.Hearing.Sec. 250.212.Bonds.Sec. 250.213.PaymentTime.Sec. 250.214.ID.To Whom.Sec. 250.215.Eminent Domain.Sec. 250.216.Stipulations for Judgment.Sec. 250.217.Offset.Sec. 250.218.Referees.Sec. 250.219.Surplus.Sec. 250.220.Notice to Owners.SUBDIVISION 5
PARKING AND TRANSIT DISTRICTSSec. 250.230.Power.Sec. 250.231.District.Sec. 250.232.Zones.Sec. 250.233.Property.Sec. 250.234.City Lands or Property.Sec. 250.235.Sale or Lease of Property.Sec. 250.236.Lease of Property.Sec. 250.237.Incidental Use of Property.Sec. 250.238.Fees and Rentals.Sec. 250.239.OperationParking.Sec. 250.240.OperationTransit.Sec. 250.241.Maintenance Cost.Sec. 250.242.Annual Report.Sec. 250.243.ID.Hearing.Sec. 250.244.ID.Collecting Assessment.Sec. 250.245.Transfer of Funds.Sec. 250.246.Pledge.Sec. 250.247.Covenants.Sec. 250.248.Alteration of District.Sec. 250.249.ID.Publication.Sec. 250.250.ID.Hearing.Sec. 250.251.ID.Order.Sec. 250.252.ID.Effect.Sec. 250.253.Supplemental Remedy Provisions.SUBDIVISION 6
MAINTENANCE DISTRICTSSec. 250.260.New Maintenance Districts.SUBARTICLE VI
ASSESSMENT BOND PROCEDURESUBDIVISION 1
GENERAL PROVISIONSSec. 250.270.Purpose.Sec. 250.271.Declaration in Resolution of Intention.Sec. 250.272.Form of Bonds.Sec. 250.273.Date.Sec. 250.274.Interest.Sec. 250.275.Serial Amounts.Sec. 250.276.Divisions.Sec. 250.277.Execution.Sec. 250.278.Sale of Bonds.Sec. 250.279.Premium.Sec. 250.280.RegistrationAgainst Theft.Sec. 250.281.ID.Against Delinquency.Sec. 250.282.Mutilated, Defaced, Lost or Destroyed Bonds.Sec. 250.283.Destruction of Paid Bonds and Coupons.Sec. 250.284.Payment of Assessments With Matured Bonds and Coupons.Sec. 250.285.Distribution of Surplus.SUBDIVISION 2
BOND PLAN ALOT BONDSSec. 250.290.Powers.Sec. 250.291.Interest.Sec. 250.292.Assessments Under $150.SUBDIVISION 3
BOND PLAN BDISTRICT BONDSSec. 250.295.Powers.Sec. 250.296.Assessments Under $150.Sec. 250.297.Unpaid List.Sec. 250.298.Denominations.Sec. 250.299.Calling Bonds.SUBDIVISION 4
BOND PLAN CDISTRICT (LIABILITY) BONDSSec. 250.305.Powers.Sec. 250.306.Bond Form.Sec. 250.307.Supplemental Advances.Sec. 250.308.Supplemental Levies.Sec. 250.309.Advance Payment and Calling Bonds.Sec. 250.310.Tax Deed and Sale.Sec. 250.311.Court Foreclosure.Sec. 250.312.Foreclosure by Bondholder.Sec. 250.313.Bid.Sec. 250.314.Use of Bonds and Coupons To Purchase Property.Sec. 250.315.Bonds and Coupons May Be Used to Purchase or Redeem Property.Sec. 250.316.Other Bondholders Shall Have no Interest in Applied Bond Proceeds.Sec. 250.317.Streets and Highways Code Section 8688 Shall Apply.Sec. 250.318.Bonds Applied Shall be at Par.SUBDIVISION 5
BOND PLAN DAD VALOREM (LAND) BONDSSec. 250.320.Board Powers.Sec. 250.321.Assessment District.Sec. 250.322.Zones.Sec. 250.323.Zone Description.Sec. 250.324.Assessment Provisions Inapplicable.Sec. 250.325.Redemption Fund.Sec. 250.326.Annual Assessment.Sec. 250.327.Other Provisions.Sec. 250.328.Voter Approval.Sec. 250.329.Calling Election.Sec. 250.330.Poll Election.Sec. 250.331.Mailed Ballot Election.Sec. 250.332.Publication.Sec. 250.333.Posting.Sec. 250.334.Time and Proof.Sec. 250.335.Proposition.Sec. 250.336.Mailing Ballots.Sec. 250.337.Canvass, Return and Declaration.Sec. 250.338.Secret Ballot.Sec. 250.339.Court Foreclosure.SUBDIVISION 6
BOND PLAN EAD VALOREM (REALTY) BONDSSec. 250.345.Powers.Sec. 250.346.Assessment District.Sec. 250.347.Zones.Sec. 250.348.Improvement Bonds.Sec. 250.349.Acquisition Bonds.Sec. 250.350.Municipal Improvement District Bonds.Sec. 250.351.Possession Bonds.Sec. 250.352.Notice of Hearing.Sec. 250.353.Form of Notice.Sec. 250.354.Hearing.Sec. 250.355.Issuance of Bonds.Sec. 250.356.Bond, Form and Execution.Sec. 250.357.Issues, Series, Divisions.Sec. 250.358.Callable Bonds.Sec. 250.359.Supplemental Bonds.Sec. 250.360.Interest.Sec. 250.361.Ad Valorem Assessment.Sec. 250.362.ID.Method of Collection.Sec. 250.364.Validity of Bonds and Assessment Rate.Sec. 250.365.Issuance of New Bonds When Proceedings For Bonds Irregular.Sec. 250.366.Alteration of Boundaries.Sec. 250.367.Election.SUBDIVISION 7
BOND PLAN FBENEFIT BONDSSec. 250.370.Powers.Sec. 250.371.Purpose.Sec. 250.372.Assessment Provisions Inapplicable.Sec. 250.373.Resolution of Intention.Sec. 250.374.Assessment Formulae.Sec. 250.375.Hearing as to Benefits.Sec. 250.376.Initial Modification.Sec. 250.377.Final Determination.Sec. 250.378.Subsequent Modification.Sec. 250.379.Notice.Sec. 250.380.Hearing and Determination.Sec. 250.381.Form of Bonds.Sec. 250.382.Separate Series.Sec. 250.383.Interest.Sec. 250.384.Interest After Maturity.Sec. 250.385.Callable Bonds.Sec. 250.386.Execution of Bonds.Sec. 250.387.Executing and Contents of Coupons.Sec. 250.388.Construction Fund.Sec. 250.389.Redemption Fund.Sec. 250.390.Trust Funds.Sec. 250.391.BudgetContents.Sec. 250.392.Benefit Assessment.Sec. 250.393.Report.Sec. 250.394.Certification.Sec. 250.395.Adoption by the Board.Sec. 250.396.Further Board Action.Sec. 250.397.HearingDate.Sec. 250.398.HearingNoticePublication and Posting.Sec. 250.399.HearingNoticeForm.Sec. 250.400.HearingAffidavits.Sec. 250.401.HearingProtests.Sec. 250.402.HearingBoard Duties.Sec. 250.403.HearingDecision Final.Sec. 250.404.Certification and Filing.Sec. 250.405.Benefit AssessmentsPosting.Sec. 250.406.Collection Method.Sec. 250.407.Advance of Funds.Sec. 250.408.Public Property Exempt.Sec. 250.409.Omitted PropertyAssessment.Sec. 250.410.Validity of Bonds and Assessment.Sec. 250.411.Curation.Sec. 250.412.Dedication.Sec. 250.413.Decisions Final.Sec. 250.414.New BondsIssued When Proceedings Irregular.Sec. 250.415.Existing BondsSecurity.Sec. 250.416.Existing BondsExchange.Sec. 250.417.Sale of New BondsRetirement of Old Bonds.Sec. 250.418.Alternate Bond Dates.Sec. 250.419.Supplemental Remedy Provisions.Sec. 250.420.Alteration of Boundaries.SUBDIVISION 8
REFUNDING BONDSSec. 250.425.Purpose.Sec. 250.426.General Law Assessment Bonds.Sec. 250.427.Procedure Code Assessment Bonds.Sec. 250.428.Refunding Bonds.Sec. 250.429.Amounts Funded or Refunded.Sec. 250.430.Exchange.Sec. 250.431.Sale.Sec. 250.432.Refunding Plan.Sec. 250.433.Depository or Trustee.Sec. 250.434.Joint Proceedings.Sec. 250.435.Contract Rights.SUBARTICLE VII
TEMPORARY BORROWINGSUBDIVISION 1
BOND ANTICIPATION NOTESSec. 250.440.Bonds.Sec. 250.441.Note.Sec. 250.442.Resolution.Sec. 250.443.Borrowing.Sec. 250.444.Authorizing Resolution.Sec. 250.445.Note Form.Sec. 250.446.Bond Description.Sec. 250.447.Negotiability.Sec. 250.448.Callable Note.Sec. 250.449.Limitation on Amount.Sec. 250.450.Denomination; Term.Sec. 250.451.Payment Source.Sec. 250.452.Bond Issuance.Sec. 250.453.Assignment.Sec. 250.454.Pledge.Sec. 250.455.Lien.Sec. 250.456.Grant Anticipation Funds; Payment; Assignment; Pledge.Sec. 250.457.Other Funds.Sec. 250.458.Saving Clause.Sec. 250.459.Time of Issuance.Sec. 250.460.Execution.Sec. 250.461.Issuance and Sale; Interest.Sec. 250.462.Use of Funds.Sec. 250.463.Refunding.SUBARTICLE VIII
LANDSCAPE AND LIGHTING MAINTENANCE DISTRICT PROCEDURESUBDIVISION 1
GENERAL PROVISIONSSec. 250.470.Purpose and Intent.Sec. 250.471.Compliance With Subarticle.Sec. 250.472.Necessary or Convenient Procedure Authorized.Sec. 250.473.Nonexclusiveness of Remedies.Sec. 250.474.Abandonment of Proceedings.Sec. 250.475.Effect Upon Other Law.Sec. 250.476.Construction.Sec. 250.477.Incorporation of the Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972.SUBARTICLE IX
CERTIFICATE AND PUBLICATIONSec. 250.480.Certificate and Publication.
SUBARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SUBDIVISION 1
APPLICATION AND EFFECT
SEC. 250.001.  SHORT TITLE.
	This Article shall be cited and referred to as the San Francisco Improvement Procedure Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.002.  ASSESSMENT PROCEEDINGS.
	Proceedings for the acquisition, construction or maintenance of any public improvement or property of a local nature or the acquisition of lands or easements, or buildings or improvements or property, or any or more than one thereof, therefor, may be had pursuant to this Procedure Code, whether or not provided in any general law or by other Articles of the Municipal Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.003.  PENDING PROCEEDINGS.
	This Procedure Code shall not apply to any proceedings in which the resolution of intention was adopted prior to the effective date hereof, excepting proceedings for a supplemental assessment, a reassessment, a refunding and the curative provisions hereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.004.  ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES.
	The procedures provided in the several articles or bond plans hereof are alternative. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.005.  PROCEDURE CODE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
	This Procedure Code is not exclusive. The resolution of intention in any proceeding under any act or general law may provide that such act or general law is supplemented by any part or parts hereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.006.  TITLES.
	Titles to sections are a part of the same section. "Id", when used in a title, means that the subject matter of such section is a part of the subject matter of the last preceding section in the title of which the word Id does not appear. When two Ids appear in a title, the subject matter of such section is a part of the subject matter of the last preceding section in the title of which the word Id does not appear and the subject matter of all intervening sections. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.007.  CODE SUPERIOR.
	The provisions of this Procedure Code shall be controlling over the provisions of any general law or act in conflict herewith in any proceeding taken hereunder. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.008.  MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS.
	This Procedure Code is adopted pursuant to the Municipal Affairs provision of the Charter of this City and County. In proceedings had pursuant hereto which are a Municipal Affair, the general laws herein referred to are deemed a part hereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.009.  STATE AFFAIRS.
	In the event any proceeding had pursuant hereto shall be adjudged a State Affair, it is hereby declared to be the intention that said proceedings were had pursuant to the general law or laws cited in the chapter or articles hereof specified in the resolution of intention therein. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.010.  SINGLE PROCEEDING.
	One or more acquisitions and improvements or acquisitions or improvements may be had in a single proceeding. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.011.  SUBARTICLES SUPPLEMENTAL.
	Subarticles 1, 2, 3 and 4 are supplemental to and controlling over the provisions of each other part of this Procedure Code in conflict therewith. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 2
DEFINITIONS
SEC. 250.015.  ACQUISITION.
	"Acquisition," or any of its variants, means and includes one or more of the following: 
	(a)	Any works, improvements, appliances, equipment or facilities authorized to be made, constructed or acquired under this Procedure Code, whether or not in existence and installed in place on or before the date of adoption of the resolution of intention for the acquisition thereof, any use or capacity rights in any of the foregoing and any works, improvements, appliances, equipment or facilities acquired or installed pursuant to Sections 10109 to 10011, inclusive, of the Streets and Highways Code: 
	(b)	Electric current, gas or other illuminating agent for power or lighting service;
	(c)	Any rights of service or use in public facilities or utilities necessary or convenient in connection with the construction or operation of any work or improvement authorized to be acquired or to be made or constructed under this Procedure Code; 
	(d)	Any real property, rights-of-way, easements or interests in real property, acquired or to be acquired by gift, purchase or eminent domain, and which are necessary or convenient in connection with the construction or operation of any work or improvement authorized to be acquired or to be made or constructed under this Procedure Code; 
	(e)	The payment in full of all amounts necessary to eliminate any fixed special assessment liens previously imposed upon any assessment parcel included in the new assessment district. The cost of such payment shall be included in the new assessment on such parcel. This subdivision shall be applicable only in cases where such acquisition is incidental to other acquisitions or improvements. 
	The word "acquisition," when used referring to that which is done, which is to be done, or which may be done under proceedings had under this Procedure Code, shall be understood to be generic and as being employed for the purpose of brevity and to avoid repetition and shall refer to and include any or all of the things comprehended in the meaning of the word acquire herein. Acquisition may be by gift, purchase, lease or eminent domain, and may be before, while or after it comes into being, in relation to the resolution of intention. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.016.  BLOCK.
	"Block," whether it be a regular or irregular block, means a parcel larger than a lot which is bounded by a street or a boundary line of some other parcel which is not a part of it. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.017.  CHARTER.
	"Charter" means the Charter of the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.018.  CITY.
	"City" means City and County of San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.019.  CLERK.
	"Clerk" and "City Clerk" refer to the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.020.  CONTRACTOR.
	"Contractor" means the person, including contracting owners or their agents, to whom a contract for the performance of any work authorized is awarded. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.021.  BOARD.
	"Board" or "Board of Supervisors" means the Board of Supervisors of the City. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.022.  DIRECTOR.
	"Director" means the Director of Public Works. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.023.  GENERAL LAW.
	The words "general law" or the word "act" or the reference to any law or act by its title shall mean an enactment of the Legislature of the State of California. Unless herein otherwise provided, or unless an applicable specific provision hereof shall conflict therewith, any law or act incorporated herein or made applicable hereby shall be as now or hereafter amended or codified at the time of adopting the resolution of intention in the proceedings. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.024.  IMPROVEMENT.
	"Improvement" means any works, improvements, appliances, equipment and facilities of local benefit to land, which are for a public purpose or which are necessary or incidental to a public purpose. The word "improvement," when used referring to that which is done, which is to be done, or which may be done under proceedings had under this Procedure Code, shall be understood to be generic and as being employed for the purpose of brevity and to avoid repetition and shall refer to and include any or all of the things comprehended in the meaning of the word improve herein. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.025.  LOT, ETC.
	"Lot," "land," "piece," or "parcel of land," whether used singly or in combination, means: 
	(a)	A parcel of real property which is shown as a single lot in a lawfully recorded subdivision approved pursuant to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act; or 
	(b)	A parcel of real property the dimensions and boundaries of which are defined as a single lot by a lawfully recorded record of survey map; or 
	(c)	A parcel of real property shown on a parcel map as a single lot lawfully recorded pursuant to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act; or 
	(d)	Any parcel of real property otherwise created and dimensioned whether or not deemed lawful pursuant to the City Zoning regulation; or 
	(e)	Two or more lots which are combined by an appropriate recorded written instrument, or, two or more lots which are combined by a common usage, may be deemed for assessment purposes a single lot. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.026.  OWNER.
	"Owner" means the person owning the fee, or the person in whose name the legal title to the property appears by deed duly recorded in the county recorder's office, or the person in possession of the property or buildings under claim of ownership, or exercising acts of ownership over the same for himself or as life tenant, or as the executor, administrator, or guardian of the owner. If the property is leased, the possession of the tenant or lessee holding and occupying such property shall be deemed to be the possession of the owner. The lessee in possession of tax exempt property, the leasehold interest of which is subject to assessment, is deemed to be the owner. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.027.  PARKING PLACE.
	"Parking Place" includes a parking lot, garage or sub-surface structure, including the grading, paving, draining, sewering, lighting or otherwise improving of such lot, and buildings and improvements necessary or convenient for the parking of motor vehicles, including parking meters, landscaping, pedestrian walkways, and other equipment and facilities necessary or convenient therefor, together with provisions necessary or convenient for ingress to and egress from such places. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.028.  PAVED.
	"Paved" or "repaved" includes pavement of any commonly used paving material. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.029.  PERSON.
	"Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, trust or any other legal entity. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.030.  PLACE.
	"Place" includes any public street, alley or easement or other public property which has been dedicated and accepted or is otherwise publicly owned according to law, or which has been in common and undisputed use by the public for a period of not less than five years next preceding, or which is sought to be acquired in any proceeding undertaken pursuant to this Procedure Code, or which is sought to be acquired in conjunction with any proceeding undertaken pursuant hereto. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.031.  PROJECT.
	"Project" or "improvement," when used in the generic sense, means the acquisition and/or improvement undertaken in a single proceeding. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.032.  STREET.
	"Street" includes streets, avenues, highways, lanes, alleys, crossings or intersections and courts which have been dedicated and accepted according to law or which have been in common and undisputed use by the public for a period of not less than five years next preceding or which have been dedicated to a semi-public use. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.033.  STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
	"Street Superintendent" or "Superintendent of Streets" refers to the Director of Public Works of the City. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.034.  TRANSIT SYSTEM.
	"Transit System" means the portion of the Municipal Railway System of the City and County of San Francisco found to be of special benefit. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.035.  TREASURER.
	"Treasurer" means the Treasurer of the City. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.036.  WORK.
	"Work" or "improvement," whether used singly or in combination, means and includes any work which is authorized to be done or any improvement which is authorized to be made under this Procedure Code or pursuant to any general law providing for assessment for local improvement or benefit, as well as the construction, reconstruction, maintenance and repair of all or part of any such work or improvement. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 3
INCIDENTAL EXPENSES
SEC. 250.040.  ACQUISITION.
	The term "incidental expenses," when referring to proceedings for an acquisition, shall be deemed to mean and shall include: 
	(a)	The amounts awarded to the owners, lessees and lienholders by the interlocutory judgments in an action for eminent domain, including sums required to be paid or expended by reason of relocation, and compensatory amounts paid to such persons as a consequence of a negotiated transaction; 
	(b)	Any and all costs and expenses incurred in prosecuting an eminent domain proceeding, including but not limited to court costs, witness fees, investigative costs and similar related items; 
	(c)	All costs for maps, plats, surveys, searches, certificates of title, and title policies for the property to be acquired;
	(d)	All fees and costs incurred for services rendered by attorneys, appraisers, financial advisors and engineers, including costs of preparing the assessment and assessment diagram; 
	(e)	The estimated cost of preparing and selling the bonds, including any reserve fund established for the further securing of the bonds; and 
	(f)	Any other expenses incurred by authority of this Procedure Code or incidental to the financing and completion of the acquisition and the assessment proceedings in the manner herein specified. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.041.  IMPROVEMENT.
	"Incidental expenses," when referring to proceedings for an improvement, shall be deemed to mean and shall include all expenses necessarily incurred in the proceedings: 
	(a)	For the publication, mailing and posting of resolutions, notices and orders in any of such proceedings;
	(b)	All fees and costs incurred for services rendered by attorneys, financial advisors, and engineers, including costs of preparing the assessment and assessment diagram; 
	(c)	The estimated cost of preparing and selling the bonds, including any reserve fund established for the further securing of the bonds; and 
	(d)	Any other expenses incurred by authority of this Procedure Code or incidental to the financing and completion of the improvement and the assessment proceedings in the manner herein specified. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 4
REFERENCES
SEC. 250.045.  RESOLUTION OF INTENTION.
	The resolution of intention shall specify the parts of this Procedure Code or general law pursuant to which the proceedings are taken. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.046.  REFERENCE TO RESOLUTION OF INTENTION.
	In all resolutions, notices, orders and determinations, subsequent to the resolution of intention and the notice of improvement, it shall be sufficient to refer to the resolution of intention by number for a description of the work or improvement. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 5
NOTICES
SEC. 250.050.  NOTICES WHEN EXPRESSLY PROVIDED.
	No notice, nor any publication of any notice, order, resolution or other matter, other than that expressly provided for in this Procedure Code, shall be necessary to give validity to any of the proceedings provided for herein. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.051.  FAILURE TO DESIGNATE OFFICER.
	Whenever any notice, resolution, order, or other matter is required to be published or posted or mailed, and the duty of posting or publishing the mailing, or procuring the same, is not specifically enjoined upon any officer or person, the Clerk shall post or mail or procure the publication or posting or mailing thereof, as the case may be. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.052.  PUBLICATION.
	Notices, resolutions, or other documents required to be published shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the City. If any hearing is therein noticed, said hearing shall be had not less than 10 days after such publication unless a shorter time is provided by general law. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.053.  POSTING AND MAILING.
	It shall not be necessary to post or mail any notice, resolution or other document or make or file any affidavit in regard thereto, unless no publication is provided and posting or mailing is necessary to provide jurisdiction. In such event, said posting or mailing shall be at least 10 days prior to any hearing provided therein unless a shorter time is provided by general law. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.054.  WHERE POSTED.
	All documents provided to be posted, other than a notice of improvement, shall be posted on or near the Board Chamber door or on any bulletin board in or adjacent to the City Hall. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.055.  MAILING.
	When any notice, resolution or other document is mailed, it shall be mailed by First Class postage prepaid to the property owners: 
	(a)	According to their names and addresses as appearing on the last equalized County Assessment roll, or
	(b)	Entitled to be shown on the next equalized roll as determined from the records of the County Assessor ascertained prior to the mailing, or 
	(c)	As filed with or known to the Clerk.
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.056.  NOTICE OF IMPROVEMENT.
	Notices of improvement, as posted, shall be entitled "Notice of Improvement" in letters at least  inch in height. The Board may provide in the resolution of intention or other document fixing hearing whether and where such notices shall be posted. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.057.  CERTIFICATES.
	The Certificate of the Clerk or officer giving notice by posting or mailing shall be conclusive proof of the giving of such notice, and no affidavit shall be required. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 6
PUBLIC AND UTILITY PROPERTY
SEC. 250.065.  MAY OMIT PUBLIC PROPERTY.
	If any lot or parcel of land belonging to the United States, or to the State, or to any county, city, public agency, mandatory of the government, school board, educational, penal or reform institution or institution for the feebleminded or the insane, is in use in the performance of a public function, and fronts upon the proposed work or is included within the district to be assessed to pay the costs and expenses thereof, the Board may, in the resolution of intention, declare that such lots or parcels of land, or any of them, shall be omitted from the assessment thereafter to be made to cover the costs and expenses of the work. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.066.  COST ON REMAINING PROPERTY.
	If any such lots or parcels of land are omitted from the assessment and no contribution has been provided therefor, the total expense of all work done shall be assessed on the remaining lots or parcels of land fronting on the work, or lying within the limits of the assessment district, without regard to such omitted lots or parcels of land. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.067.  PAYMENT.
	Notwithstanding any provision of general law which requires the City to pay any assessment levied on property described in Section 250.065 of this Procedure Code, the Board shall have the power to levy an assessment thereon and such agency to pay the same, 
	(a)	Pursuant to any general law authorizing the same, or
	(b)	Pursuant to any contract therefor between the City and such agency; and the legality thereof shall not be affected by the providing or the failure to provide therefor in the resolution of intention. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.068.  UTILITY PROPERTY.
	Property owned or used by any privately owned public utility shall be assessed in the same manner as other property in the district. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 7
CONTRIBUTIONS AND ADVANCES
SEC. 250.070.  CONTRIBUTIONS.
	Contributions or partial payments from the United States or the State or any agency of either, or from any other public entity, may be accepted and the same or any available City monies, deemed by the Board to be in the furtherance of the public interest, may be applied to any part of the costs of a project at any time during or after the proceedings and, where appropriate, applied in reduction of the amount assessed or to be assessed therefor. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.071.  PURCHASE OF ASSESSMENT, WARRANT AND BONDS.
	In any proceedings had hereunder, the City may, at any time prior to the delivery or sale thereof, determine to purchase the assessment, warrant or bonds to be issued therein, subject to any limitations contained in the Charter. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.072.  ID.-PAYMENT.
	In such event, the City shall, upon the issuance of the assessment, warrant or bonds, direct the payment of the principal amount to the persons entitled thereto. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.073.  ID.-BONDS.
	Such bonds, when issued, shall be made payable to bearer, provided, however, that the Board may provide for their issuance in, or conversion to, registered form. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.074.  ID.-CITY.
	In the case of such investment, the City shall succeed to all rights under such assessment, warrant and bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.075.  ID.-SUBSEQUENT PURCHASE.
	The City shall have like power to subsequently acquire and own any bonds or assessments or contract issued or levied or made hereunder, or now issued and outstanding, for any improvement and/or acquisition of the City. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.076.  PURCHASE AND SALE OF DELINQUENT PROPERTY.
	The City may bid and purchase any real or personal property offered for sale for the nonpayment of any improvement assessment levied and assessed under any of the provisions of this part, or of any installment thereof, or penalties or costs or interest thereon, or any suit brought to foreclosure such assessment. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.077.  ID.-SALE.
	Whenever any property shall have been acquired by the City at any such sale, then such property, or any lien thereon or interest therein created by such assessment, may be released, assigned, sold or otherwise disposed of by City as it shall determine; provided, however, that no such release, assignment, sale or other disposition of any such lien or interest, or of any such property, shall be made unless there shall be first paid to City a sum of money equal to, and not less than the amount paid therefor by City, together with all accrued penalties, costs, interest, and necessary expenses incurred; provided, further, that if any lien or interest, or property, cannot, as determined by the Board, be sold for the amounts or charges computed as herein provided, then the Board may by 4/5 vote of all its members, sell any such lien or interest or property for the best price obtainable according to its judgment; provided, further, that the Board may determine by such 4/5 vote that the public interest would best be served by the sale of such property for a particular use, in which event the consideration therefor shall be as deemed appropriate by the Board. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.078.  ADVANCED BY CITY WITHOUT BONDS.
	The Board may declare in the resolution of intention or by separate resolution subsequently adopted that the City intends to advance the entire cost of the project from available funds without issuance of bonds. In such event, the City shall pay all project costs as they accrue, and shall succeed to all rights under the assessment and to all rights which would have accrued under the bonds had they been issued. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.079.  REIMBURSEMENT.
	The assessment and diagram and/or warrant shall be recorded as in other cases and notice to pay assessments given in the time and manner provided herein. Such notices shall provide in substance that the assessment may be paid in cash in whole or in part at any time prior to the notice hereinafter mentioned in Section 250.080, but that the amount unpaid as of July 1st of each year following the recordation of the assessment will be increased by a penalty of 10 percent. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.080.  ID.-NOTICE OF INSTALLMENT PAYMENT.
	The City may, at any time after the expiration of 30 days from recordation of the assessment, give notice by publication and mailing that the amounts unpaid on the 30th day after such mailing are due and payable to the City in annual installments, not necessarily equal, but not exceeding the maximum number of installments set forth in the resolution of intention, with interest at rates to be fixed by the Board, but not to exceed the rate set forth in the resolution of intention. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.081.  ID.-PAYMENT.
	Thereafter, the annual proportion of each assessment coming due in any year, together with the annual interest on such assessment, shall be payable in the same manner and at the same time and in the same installments, and be subject to the same proportionate penalties and interest after delinquency as would have been the case had bonds been issued to represent the unpaid assessments. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 8
REVOLVING FUNDS
SEC. 250.085.  REVOLVING FUND.
	In the exercise of any of the powers now or hereafter provided for in this Procedure Code, including, but not limited to, the right to take immediate possession in eminent domain proceedings, the Board may, by resolution, create a revolving fund, transfer lawful monies to it, use said monies for the purposes designated, reimburse said fund from any monies derived pursuant to this Procedure Code, and dissolve said fund by retransferring said monies to the funds from which they were transferred or to any other fund it deems appropriate, consistent with any legal limitations on the ultimate use of such monies and consistent with the provisions of the Charter. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.086.  PROCEDURE.
	The revolving fund may be established, operated, reimbursed, reduced or dissolved, in which event Article 2, Chapter 3, Division 4, Title 4 of the Government Code, may, but need not, apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 9
ASSESSMENT AND DIAGRAM
SEC. 250.090.  ASSESSMENT.
	Parcels may be described as contained on the County assessment roll, or with reference to recorded maps or deeds or assessors' maps, or by other means sufficient for identifications. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.091.  INCLUSION OF OTHER SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
	Any proceeding had pursuant to this Procedure Code may include all sums necessary to remove former assessments for other projects on any of the lands within the assessment district, and for the call and retirement of the bonds issued therefor, in order that the new assessments shall become a first lien on all properties assessed. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.092.  CREDIT FOR CONTRIBUTION OF MONEY, LAND, EASEMENTS OR IMPROVEMENTS.
	In assessing the costs of any acquisitions, improvements or maintenance, credits may be given or adjustments may otherwise be made by reason of the former or present contribution of monies, lands, easements or improvements, or any interest therein, which would otherwise have to be acquired or constructed and the costs assessed in the project. Should the assessments be related to transit, credit or adjustment may be made for all, or that portion, of any transit development fee or other similar fee or charge which may have been paid for the same purpose. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.093.  DIAGRAM.
	The diagram may describe the lands contained therein in reference to or by copies of official maps or assessors' maps, or be otherwise sufficient to identify the several parcels thereon. It shall not be necessary to show thereon their relationship to the acquisitions or improvements. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBARTICLE II
GENERAL PROCEDURE
SUBDIVISION 1
PROTESTS
SEC. 250.100.  PROTESTS.
	Objections may be made to ordering improvements or acquisitions, or to grades, or to an assessment, or the extent of the district, or to any supplemental assessment or re-assessment, the legality of any act or proceedings, or to changes, or to any part thereof, at or before the hour set for the hearing thereon. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.101.  FORM.
	Protests shall be in writing, signed by the owner, contain a description of the property owned sufficient to identify same, and state the interest therein and the nature of the protest, and be filed with the Clerk prior to the hour fixed for hearing. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.102.  LEGALITY.
	Objections to legality shall specify the illegality, and no other illegalities need be considered. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.103.  MAJORITY PROTESTS.
	Except as otherwise provided herein, the Board may, by the affirmative vote of a majority of all its members, overrule protests by the owners of more than half the area to be assessed. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 2
HEARINGS
SEC. 250.105.  TIME.
	No hearings need be set for a longer period than the time required for giving notice thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.106.  HEARING.
	At the hearing, the Board shall consider and pass upon the protests, may remedy or correct any irregularity, and may order any improvement or acquisition to be completed according to the plans and specifications and to their satisfaction. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.107.  CONTINUANCES.
	A hearing may be continued from time to time and to a specific date, time and place. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 3
MODIFICATIONS
SEC. 250.110.  MODIFICATIONS.
	During the progress of the project, the Board may make changes in the improvements or acquisitions, the boundaries of the proposed assessment district or zones or the assessment or the estimate of costs, or in any of the proceedings or procedures. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.111.  NOTICE.
	Where said changes result in extending the boundaries of the assessment district, increasing the total amount to be collected, or increasing improvements or acquisitions or making substitutions therein or in the proceedings or procedures, they shall not be ordered except after notice of its intention so to do has been published in the newspaper in which the resolution of intention or notice of improvement was published, describing the proposed changes and specifying the time and place of hearing. Where said change results in the increase of a fixed lien assessment as to any one or more parcels, or a change of formula for apportionment of a nonfixed lien assessment, notice of such intention shall also be given by mail to the owners of such parcels, not less than 10 days before said hearing. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.112.  PROTESTS.
	Protests may only be made against the proposed changes. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.113.  ORDER.
	If no protests are made, or are found to be insufficient, or have been overruled, immediately thereon the Board may order such changes. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.114.  RECORD.
	Said changes may be made in permanent form upon the face of the plans, specifications, estimate, diagram, assessment or other document affected, or by an amended or supplemental document. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.115.  LIEN.
	The lien date of the original assessment shall not be affected by any such order of modification. The lien date of such changes shall be the date on which the original assessment was recorded. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 4
SUPPLEMENTAL ASSESSMENT
SEC. 250.120.  SUPPLEMENTAL ASSESSMENT.
	If the first assessment for any improvement or acquisition, or if the bonds issued to pay all costs, damages and expenses incurred or to be incurred, including any judgments rendered or to be rendered, and the costs and expenses of such action or proceedings, or the estimated amount of any thereof, are insufficient, the Board may order a supplemental assessment to raise such deficit. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.121.  HOW LEVIED.
	Said assessment shall be made and collected in the same manner, as nearly as may be, as the first assessment, or a re-assessment may be had therefor; and said proceedings may be repeated until sufficient money is raised to pay for same. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.122.  NOTICE AND ORDER.
	Notice shall be given, protests may be made, and said supplemental assessment heard, confirmed and recorded as herein provided for modifications. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.123.  PAYMENT.
	Proceedings for notice, demand and payment shall be had as provided for the original assessment. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.124.  NONFIXED LIEN.
	Where annual assessments are levied and liens imposed to pay the annual principal and interest of bonds issued pursuant to Subdivisions 5, 6 and 7 of Subarticle VI, or pursuant to a similar plan, which bonds do not represent fixed amounts which are a lien on the lots or parcels assessed, an increase of the costs and of the supplemental bonds to be issued shall be ordered in the manner provided herein for modification. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 5
REAPPORTIONMENT OF BENEFITS
SEC. 250.130.  DETERMINATION.
	When the assessments are other than fixed lien assessments, in the judgment of the Board the varying benefits which are being derived by the several parcels of taxable property no longer reflect the benefits received from the improvements, whether within an assessment district theretofore established by it, or in a zone thereof, or as to the extent of the areas of either, either by reason of changed conditions or a reconsideration of original benefits, the apportionment of which has been established by it, it may take proceedings to re-establish the apportionment of said benefits among said several parcels. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.131.  PROCEDURE.
	When proceedings are had pursuant hereto, the provisions of Subdivision 3 of this Subarticle shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.132.  METHOD.
	In the reapportionment of said benefits, the properties may be divided into zones in the manner herein provided, varying benefits may be assigned to the several zones, benefits of existing zones may be reapportioned, changes may be made in the properties within the district, or in the method of apportioning benefits previously established, or in the amounts or percentage of money that may be raised in the various zones, or in the rate of assessment levy that may be made therein, and provision may be made for granting credits for offsetting benefits. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.133.  FORMULAE.
	The formulae for making such changes and modifications, the manner of apportioning benefits and the manner in which it shall be carried out shall be clearly set forth in the resolution of intention to make the changes. The resolution ordering the change shall also set forth such matters, either expressly or by referring to them as set forth in the prior resolution. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBARTICLE III
CURATION
SUBDIVISION 1
CURATION
SEC. 250.135.  CONSTITUTIONALITY.
	If any provision of this Procedure Code or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision or such other application of such provision which can be given effect without such provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this Procedure Code are declared to be severable. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.136.  WAIVER.
	All objections not made within the time and manner herein provided are waived. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.137.  ORDERS FINAL.
	All decisions and determinations of the Board, upon notice and hearing, shall be final and conclusive upon all persons entitled to appeal, as to all errors, informalities, omissions and irregularities which might have been avoided, or which might have been or may be remedied, and as to illegalities not amounting to a want of due process of law. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.138.  NOTICE OF AWARD.
	The notice to pay assessments under the Street Opening Act of 1903 or the Municipal Improvement Act of 1913, and a notice confirming assessment or re-assessment under any other procedure herein, shall have like curative effect as the Notice of Award under the Improvement Act of 1911. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.139.  LIBERALLY CONSTRUED.
	This Procedure Code shall be liberally construed in order to effectuate its purpose. No error, irregularity, informality, omission or illegality and no neglect or omission of any officer, in any procedure taken hereunder, which does not directly affect the jurisdiction of the Board to order the work, improvement, or maintenance shall void or invalidate such proceeding or any assessment for the cost of any work, acquisition, or maintenance hereunder. The exclusive remedy of any person affected or aggrieved thereby shall be by appeal to the Board in accordance with the provisions hereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.140.  VALIDITY.
	No step in any proceeding shall be invalidated or affected by any error or mistake or departure from the provisions of this Procedure Code as to the officer or person posting or publishing or mailing, or procuring the publication or posting or mailing of any notice, resolution, order or other matter when such notice is actually given for the time required. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.141.  EFFECT OF PUBLICATION.
	No assessment, reassessment, supplemental assessment, warrant, diagram, bond, or note, or any of their levy or issuance, and no proceedings for same, shall be held invalid by any court for any error, informality, omission, irregularity, illegality or other defect in the same, where the resolution of intention or notice of improvement have been actually published as herein provided. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.142.  DEDICATION.
	No proceedings shall be held to be invalid upon the ground that the place or property upon which the work or improvement or part thereof is to be or was done, had not been lawfully dedicated or acquired, provided the same shall have been lawfully dedicated or acquired or an order for immediate possession and use thereof shall have been obtained at any time before final judgment is entered in any legal action. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.143.  LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
	No action, suit or proceeding to set aside, cancel, void, annul or correct any assessment or re-assessment, or to review any of the procedures, acts or determinations in any proceedings, or to question the validity or to enjoin the collection of any assessments or re-assessments or supplemental assessments shall be maintained by any person unless such action, suit or proceeding shall have been commenced within 30 days after the acquisition or improvement, or the formation of the maintenance district, had been ordered or such assessment shall have been confirmed, whichever shall first occur. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.144.  ID.-NONFIXED LIEN.
	When bonds are to be issued pursuant to Subdivisions 5, 6, or 7 of Subarticle VI, pursuant to a similar plan, in which the bonds do not represent fixed amounts which are a lien on the properties assessed, or when a maintenance district is formed, no action, suit or proceeding to set aside, cancel or void the jurisdiction of the Board in the proceedings or to order the issuance of the bonds or to issue the bonds, or to levy any annual assessment to pay the principal and interest of the bonds, or maintenance of said improvements, unless such suit, action or proceeding shall have been commenced within 30 days after the Board shall have ordered the acquisitions and improvements or formation of said district. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.145.  ID.-DEFENSE.
	No defense based on invalidity or irregularity in any such proceedings shall be raised or pleaded after the expiration of such 30-day period. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.146.  VALIDATING PROCEDURE.
	The Board at any time after the adoption of the resolution of intention, the proposed contractor at any time after the award of the contract to him, or the proposed purchaser of the warrant or any bonds to be issued at any time after the assignment of said warrant or award of said bonds to him, may bring an action in the Superior Court of the State of California in and for the City and County of San Francisco, to determine the validity of any such proceedings, of such proposed contract, or of the assessment or tax levied or to be levied, or of said bonds issued or to be issued. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.147.  PROCEDURE.
	Except as provided in Section 250.146, Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 860), Title 10, Part 2, California Code of Civil Procedure, shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 2
RE-ASSESSMENT
SEC. 250.150.  RE-ASSESSMENT.
	If, in the opinion of the Board, any assessment heretofore or hereafter made or issued is void or unenforceable, for any cause, or if bonds are issued to represent or be secured by any assessments and such issuance is not effective through the curative provisions applicable thereto to make them valid and enforceable, or if the previous assessment or bonds are insufficient to pay the cost or estimated cost or the project, or if the Board shall determine that the public interest will be served thereby, a re-assessment may be had. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.151.  UNCOMPLETED IMPROVEMENT.
	Where the assessment was for an uncompleted improvement, a re-assessment may be had notwithstanding the improvement is not completed. In such case, the re-assessment shall assess upon the lands benefited the benefits derived from the improvement or to be derived from the improvement when completed. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.152.  WHEN AND HOW MUCH.
	If a determination is made as provided in Section 250.150, the re-assessment shall be made upon the demand of the contractor or his assigns, or the owner or holder of bonds aggregating 1/3 of the principal amount outstanding, or upon order of the Board and shall be made in the manner and form provided by the Improvement Act of 1911 or Improvement Bond Act of 1915, whichever is deemed appropriate. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Board from ordering a re-assessment on its motion, and its decision so to do shall be final and conclusive. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.153.  INTEREST.
	In the resolution ordering the reassessment, the Board shall determine whether said re-assessment shall include interest and, if so, the rate at which and the date from which it shall be computed. In lieu thereof, it may order that the re-assessment shall bear interest at a rate and from a date certain. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.154.  PAYMENT.
	If the bonds have not been issued, or if the bonds outstanding are not to be replaced by new bonds, proceedings for notice to pay, demand and payment shall be had as provided for the original assessment. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBARTICLE IV
LIEN
SUBDIVISION 1
NATURE AND EXTENT
SEC. 250.160.  PRIORITY OF LIENS.
	Except as hereinafter provided, the lien of any assessments levied or bonds issued under this Procedure Code or any law referred to herein shall be subordinate to all special assessment liens and the lien of the bonds previously imposed upon the same property, but shall have priority over all such liens subsequently imposed upon the same property, to be determined by the date or the recordation of the assessment. Bonds issued upon a re-assessment or a supplemental assessment shall have the same priority as that of the original bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.161.  DURATION OF LIENS.
	All assessments, reassessments, and bonds and each installment thereof, and the interest, costs and penalties upon same, levied hereunder, shall continue as liens against the lots and parcels on which they are levied and imposed, as provided in the Code of Civil Procedure. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.162.  NONFIXED LIEN BONDS.
	Bonds issued pursuant to Subdivisions 5, 6, or 7 of Subarticle VI or pursuant to any other bond plan now or hereafter adopted by the Board which are payable from annual assessment levies which are not installments of total assessments which are a fixed lien on the properties assessed, and the annual assessment installments levied to pay the principal and interest of such bonds, are hereby declared to be on an equal parity one with another, regardless of bond plan, issue, series or date of issue. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.163.  PRIORITY OF NONFIXED LIEN ASSESSMENT LEVIES.
	Annual assessment installments levied to pay the principal and interest of bonds of the nature described in Section 250.162 or to pay the costs of maintenance and operation of improvements, equipment and facilities, shall constitute liens on the respective lots and parcels assessed co-equal with the lien of general taxes, not subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on account of the nonpayment of general taxes, and prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles other than liens of general taxes. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBARTICLE V
ACQUISITION, AND IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE DISTRICT PROCEDURE
SUBDIVISION 1
INVESTIGATION PROCEEDINGS
SEC. 250.170.  NECESSITY OF IMPROVEMENT.
	When it appears that the public convenience and necessity require an acquisition and/or improvement and proceedings should be taken without complying with the provisions of the Special Assessment Investigation, Limitation and Majority Protest Act of 1931, a public hearing shall be held on the said question of the public convenience and necessity therefor which shall be called and notice of the time and place thereof shall be given in accordance with the provisions of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.171.  PRELIMINARY DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.
	A resolution of preliminary determination shall be adopted describing in general terms the proposed improvement or acquisition and setting a time and place when and where any and all persons interested may appear and show cause, if any they have, why the Board should not find and determine that the public convenience and necessity require the proposed acquisition or improvement without compliance with said Investigation Act. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.172.  NOTICE AND HEARING.
	The resolution shall contain a notice of the time and place of hearing. A copy of the resolution or of the notice shall be published in one or more issues of a newspaper published and circulated in the City, and a copy shall be posted on or near the Board Chamber door or on a bulletin board in or adjacent to the City Hall. The posting and first publication shall be had at least 10 days before the date of hearing. The resolution may be consolidated with the resolution of intention, and the notice may be incorporated in the notice of improvement. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.173.  OBJECTIONS.
	Any person interested may object to undertaking the proceedings without first complying with the provisions of the said Investigation Act. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.174.  FINAL DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.
	If no protests are made, or when the protests shall have been heard and overruled, the Board may adopt a resolution finding and determining that the public convenience and necessity require the proposed improvements and/or acquisitions, and that the Investigation Act shall not apply. The finding may be incorporated in the resolution ordering the improvement and/or acquisition. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.175.  MODIFICATION.
	When proceedings are had for a change and modification, the resolution of intention to change and modify shall be deemed a resolution of intention and the resolution ordering the changes and modifications shall be deemed a resolution ordering the improvement or acquisition as to the changes and modifications. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.176.  JURISDICTION.
	The resolution determining the convenience and necessity shall be adopted by the affirmative vote of 4/5 of the members of the Board, and its finding and determination shall be final and conclusive. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.177.  NONAPPLICATION.
	This Subdivision shall not apply to a proceeding which is excepted from the provisions of the said Investigation Act, or when the investigation proceedings have been avoided or taken pursuant to said Act. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.178.  FINALITY.
	Where proceedings for any improvements and/or acquisition or any part thereof have been undertaken without compliance with the Investigation Act or without proceedings under this Subdivision, proceedings may thereafter be had under this Subdivision with reference thereto, and the order of the Board determining convenience and necessity therein shall be final and conclusive. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.179.  NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT-FIXED LIEN ASSESSMENTS.
	Notice of assessment shall be given in a fixed lien assessment proceeding in the manner provided in Section 3114 of the Streets and Highways Code and Section 27288.1 of the Government Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.180.  ID.-OTHER ASSESSMENTS.
	The provisions of Section 250.179 shall not apply in a proceeding which does not provide for fixed lien assessments. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 2
IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1911
SEC. 250.185.  POWERS.
	The Improvement Act of 1911, as said Act may be amended from time to time, is incorporated in and made a part of this Subarticle. When proceedings are taken pursuant to this Subdivision, except as otherwise provided herein, the mode and manner of making improvements and for levying and collecting assessments as set forth in said Act shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.186.  CASH ASSESSMENTS, ALTERNATIVE COLLECTION.
	As an alternative method for the collection of cash assessments or assessments of less than $150 levied upon the provisions of this Subdivision, the Board may, and upon the timely written request of the contractor or his assigns, must, by resolution adopted at or before the first day of September direct that such assessments be collected upon the County tax roll. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.187.  ID.-RESOLUTION, CONTENTS.
	The resolution shall contain a description of the properties so assessed, the amount of such assessments, together with interest thereon from the date of filing the original list of unpaid assessments and at the rate of one percent per month to the next succeeding thirty-first day of December of the tax year for which such roll shall have been prepared, and the total amounts of principal and interest on each property. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.188.  ID.-FILING.
	A certified copy of said resolution shall be delivered immediately to the Tax Collector. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.189.  ID.-EXTENSION ON ROLL.
	Said officer shall extend upon such roll the total amounts of such assessments and interest. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.190.  ID.-COLLECTION.
	Said amounts shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner, as general taxes are collected, and be subject to the same penalties and interest, and to the same procedure for foreclosure and sale in case of delinquency, as provided for general taxes, all of which laws for the levy, enforcement and collection of which are hereby made applicable to such special assessment levies. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.191.  ID.-PAYMENT TO CONTRACTOR.
	Said assessments and the interest so extended shall become due and payable to the contractor or his assigns at the office of the Treasurer on the second day of January next succeeding. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.192.  ID.-DEFAULT.
	Upon default in payment, the lands so assessed shall be sold in the same manner in which real property in such City is sold for the non-payment of general taxes, and be subject to redemption in the same manner as such real property is redeemed from such delinquent sale, and upon failure of such redemption, shall in like manner be sold or pass by deed to the City. The City shall not, however, be required to pay into the assessment fund any part of such delinquency until such property be redeemed or sold and money received therefor. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.193.  ID.-RESALE.
	Upon receipt of such deed, the City shall thereupon offer and sell such property at public auction in the manner provided by law for the sale of its tax-deeded property, and the amount of said assessment and the penalties and interest thereon, less the costs of said sale, shall be paid to said contractor or his assigns. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.194.  ID.-NO BIDDER.
	In the event there shall have been no bidder offering the amount then due on such property, it may, at the City's election, be declared sold to the owner of such assessment, and in like manner be deeded to him, and such assessment ordered satisfied of record. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 3
RESERVED
SUBDIVISION 4
MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1913
SEC. 250.210.  POWERS.
	The Municipal Improvement Act of 1913, as said Act may be amended from time to time, is incorporated in and made a part of this Subarticle. When proceedings are taken pursuant to this Subdivision, except where inconsistent with applicable provisions of this Procedure Code, the mode and manner of making improvements and for levying and collecting assessments as set forth in said Act shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.211.  HEARING.
	The hearing on the report need not be set for more than 10 days beyond the date of setting. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.212.  BONDS.
	Bonds may be issued upon any supplemental assessment, and more than one such assessment may be had. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.213.  PAYMENT-TIME.
	The time provided for payment of assessments may be 30 days. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.214.  ID.-TO WHOM.
	Payment shall be made to the Treasurer unless the Board shall specify some other officer to whom payments are to be made. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.215.  EMINENT DOMAIN.
	Proceedings in eminent domain may be exercised under the Code of Civil Procedure. Since the assessment is made upon an estimate and before the entry of the interlocutory judgment as to any parcel, benefits above the amount of the assessment on such parcel shall be credited against severance damages as to such parcel in said action. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.216.  STIPULATIONS FOR JUDGMENT.
	Stipulations and proceedings thereon for judgment may be had as provided in the Street Opening Act of 1903. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.217.  OFFSET.
	Awards and assessments may be offset as provided in the Street Opening Act of 1903. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.218.  REFEREES.
	Reference to referees may be had as provided in the Street Opening Act of 1903. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.219.  SURPLUS.
	Where surplus is not used for maintenance of the improvement and is ordered refunded and the assessment has been paid in cash in full, the portion of the surplus applicable thereto shall be returned in cash to the person paying it or to his assignee, upon his furnishing satisfactory evidence of such payment. The determination of the Treasurer as to the sufficiency of such proof and the person to whom such money shall be paid shall be final and conclusive. When bonds have been, or are provided to be issued under Bond Plan D, E, or F, the surplus shall be deposited in the bond interest and redemption fund. Any surpluses remaining unexpended for a period of four years after final completion of the project and payment of all costs and expenses thereof may be transferred to the general fund. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.220.  NOTICE TO OWNERS.
	When bonds are to be issued on a basis other than fixed lien assessments, the basis or formula for the annual levies shall be stated in the notice to property owners, and the provisions of Subdivision (c) of Section 10307 of the Streets and Highways Code shall not apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 5
PARKING AND TRANSIT DISTRICTS
SEC. 250.230.  POWER.
	There is hereby vested in the Board the power to acquire, construct, reconstruct, install, extend, enlarge, repair, improve, maintain, and operate public automobile parking places within the City; to acquire, by purchase, lease or eminent domain the lands and public rights-of-way necessary or convenient therefor; to acquire and construct public improvements and equipment and facilities necessary or convenient therefor; to levy assessments and issue bonds to pay for the cost of the whole or any part thereof and the expenses incidental thereto; and to levy assessments to pay for the cost of maintenance, repair and remodeling of any parking place, parking lot, garage or structure. There is further vested in the Board the right to determine that public transit facilities shall be provided and operated and maintained in substitution, in whole or in part, for public parking places. In such event, the Board may determine to levy assessments to pay that portion of the costs of capital improvement, replacement, operation, maintenance and repair of such transit facilities or equipment provided in lieu of public parking and necessary for the full utilization of the land benefiting. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.231.  DISTRICT.
	The whole, or any portion, of said City may be formed into an improvement and/or maintenance district and assessments may be levied upon, and bonds may be issued against, the properties therein for the purpose of paying for the costs of acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, installing, extending, enlarging, repairing, improving, maintaining and operating parking places and transit facilities, and the expenses incidental thereto. Proceedings for the formation of such district or districts for the levying of such assessments and for the issuing of such bonds, if any, shall be as provided in Subarticles V and VI of this Procedure Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.232.  ZONES.
	If, in the judgment of the Board, varying benefits will be derived by the different parcels of real property lying within the assessment district, the district may be divided into zones according to benefits. 
	(a)	The district may be divided into as many zones, up to the total number of parcels of land in the district, as may be deemed proper, and each zone shall be composed of and include all of the lands within the district which will be benefited in like measure. 
	(b)	The Board shall also determine the apportionment of the sum to be raised each year by the levy and collection of the assessments in the district for the payments of the principal and interest of the bonds or for purposes of paying costs of capital replacement, maintenance and repair, which amount will be raised from the lands in each zone. 
	(c)	When the district is divided into zones, the resolution of intention shall so state, giving the method of apportionment to be used to determine the amounts to be raised from lands in each zone. 
	(d)	Each zone shall be designated by a different letter or number and shall be plainly shown on the map or plat of the assessment district filed in the office of the Clerk and referred to in the resolution of intention, either by separate boundaries, coloring or other convenient and graphic method, so that all persons interested may with accuracy ascertain within which zone any parcel of land is located. 
	(e)	It shall be sufficient, in all cases where the assessment district is to be divided into zones according to benefits, if the resolution of intention states the fact and refers to the plat or map for the boundaries and all details concerning the zones. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.233.  PROPERTY.
	The City may, in furtherance of its parking and transit purposes, purchase, lease, obtain option upon, acquire by gift, grant, bequest, devise, eminent domain, or otherwise, and hold, sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of, any real or personal property within the City or any interest in, or improvement on, such property. All such property shall be acquired and held in the name of the City. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.234.  CITY LANDS OR PROPERTY.
	City lands or property may be acquired. In such event, the resolution of intention shall describe same and state the amount and manner of payment of the compensation. In lieu thereof, the Board may provide in said resolution that the compensation for said lands or property shall be an amount to be fixed by the decision of two or three disinterested competent appraisers to be appointed by the Board. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.235.  SALE OR LEASE OF PROPERTY.
	The Board may sell or lease any land or property acquired for parking places or transit purposes which is not needed therefor. Any money received from such sale or lease may be used for the acquisition, construction or improving of other parking places or transit facilities in the parking or transit district. It may also be applied as a credit on any assessments levied for the acquisition of such property, in which case the provisions of Section 250.219 shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.236.  LEASE OF PROPERTY.
	When, in its opinion, the public interest and economy will be served thereby, the Board may lease one or more parking places and facilities or transit facilities. In so doing, the Board may restrict or partially restrict their use to owners and tenants of real property in the district and classes or persons designated by such owners or tenants. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.237.  INCIDENTAL USE OF PROPERTY.
	As an incident to the operation of any parking or transit facility, the Board may devote a portion of the property to uses such as retail stores, bus terminals, gasoline service stations, helicopter landing areas, restaurants or eating places, or any other commercial use, when in its judgment it is convenient or necessary to conduct or permit such use in order to utilize properly the property as a parking or transit facility. Any such incidental use shall be secondary to the primary use as a parking or transit facility, and shall not exceed 25 percent surface area of the property or, in the case of a building, 25 percent of the floor area or of the value of the structure. Rentals received for such purpose shall be deposited in the improvement fund or in the bond interest and redemption fund for said project as the Board shall determine. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.238.  FEES AND RENTALS.
	The Board may fix rentals, fees or other charges for the properties, works and facilities or any parking place. In so doing, it may establish rates, charges or rentals for the owners and tenants of such properties and classes of persons designated by the owners or tenants which differs from and are less than the rates, charges and rentals charged other persons. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.239.  OPERATION-PARKING.
	Such parking places may be maintained and operated, and all or any costs and expenses thereof, including rent, repairs, replacement, fuel, power, electrical current, care, supervision, and any other items necessary for the proper maintenance and operation thereof, may be expended for that purpose. Included in such costs may be the cost of replacements, improvements and extensions to any parking place necessary or convenient for the proper operation thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.240.  OPERATION-TRANSIT.
	Transit facilities, to the extent they are determined by the Board to be of special benefit, may be maintained and operated, and the costs and expenses or portion thereof, including repairs, replacement, fuel, power, electrical current, operation, care, supervision and any other items necessary therefor, may be expended for that purpose. Included in such costs may be the cost of replacements and improvements of or to specific transit facilities deemed necessary or convenient for the proper operation thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.241.  MAINTENANCE COST.
	An annual assessment may be levied upon the real property within the district established therefor for the purpose of maintaining and operating such parking places or transit facilities. Such assessment shall be in an amount clearly sufficient to pay any and all costs and expenses of maintaining and operating such parking places or transit facilities then due or thereafter to accrue before the proceeds of another levy shall be available therefor and which are not otherwise provided for. Such levy shall be apportioned among the properties within such district on the basis of the method of apportionment set forth in the resolution of intention to establish the district or in proceedings hereafter conducted pursuant to Section 250.260 hereof, for the purpose of establishing such a method. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.242.  ANNUAL REPORT.
	When any part of the operative cost of parking places is to be paid by a special levy, the San Francisco Parking Authority shall annually file with the Clerk a written report stating in reasonable detail the estimated cost of maintenance and operation for which an assessment is to be levied in that year, including the cost of replacements, improvements and extensions to any parking place. When part of the operation costs of transit are to be so paid, such report shall be prepared and filed by the Municipal Transportation Agency. The report shall also state the manner of apportioning the levy to be made therefor. When such report shall have been primarily approved by the Board, the Clerk shall give notice to interested persons that such report has been filed in his office and open to inspection, and of a time and place when such report will be heard by the Board and an assessment ordered. Such notices may be by publication in a newspaper published in the City, or by mail to the assessees of the property at their addresses appearing on the last County tax roll or entitled to be shown on the next equalized roll as determined from the records of the Assessor or ascertained prior to the mailing or as known to the Clerk, at least 10 days before the day set for hearing. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81; Ord. 14-07, File No. 061675, App. 2/9/2007)
SEC. 250.243.  ID.-HEARING.
	The report shall be fully heard, and may be altered, amended or supplemented by the Board. When all objections have been heard and action taken with reference thereto, by their having been overruled or otherwise, such report as presented or as modified shall be confirmed by resolution of the Board. Such levy shall become and remain a lien on the property described therein from the date it is confirmed until paid. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.244.  ID.-COLLECTING ASSESSMENT.
	The Tax Collector shall extend the amounts thereof on the next tax rolls on which taxes are collected; and it shall be collected in the same manner, and be subject to the same penalties, costs and interest, and may be redeemed, and the property sold for nonpayment thereof, and title shall pass to the purchaser, as provided for taxes, except that the period of redemption shall be one year instead of five. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.245.  TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
	The City may advance funds for the acquisition, construction or improving of such parking places or transit facilities, or for the maintenance and operation thereof, and reimburse itself from the proceeds of any assessment subsequently levied for that purpose. It may also make contributions thereto from available funds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.246.  PLEDGE.
	The Board may, at any time, make such pledge or pledges, as it shall determine, for the payment of the principal and interest of the bonds, or for the maintenance and operation of the facilities constructed, acquired or to be constructed or acquired therewith or with other funds, or for adequate reserves, from the income and revenue of on and off-street parking or transit facilities. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.247.  COVENANTS.
	The Board may provide all proper and usual covenants for the proper security and payment of the principal and interest of the bonds, including a covenant to establish a special security fund, or to foreclose, in the manner provided by Division 10 (commencing with Section 8500) of the Streets and Highways Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.248.  ALTERATION OF DISTRICT.
	The boundaries of such district may be enlarged from time to time. The territory to be annexed shall be set forth in a resolution of intention to be adopted by the Board, which shall give notice that said matter, and all persons interested, will be heard by the Board at a time to be stated therein, at the regular meeting place of the Board. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.249.  ID.-PUBLICATION.
	Such resolution shall be published. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.250.  ID.-HEARING.
	The hearing may be adjourned from time to time. At the hearing, the Board shall have power to determine whether or not the entire territory, or only a portion thereof, to be annexed will be benefited by being annexed. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.251.  ID.-ORDER.
	The Board shall by resolution order the annexation of such territory, defining its boundaries therein. Its decisions thereon shall be final and conclusive. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.252.  ID.-EFFECT.
	Thereafter the property annexed shall be subject to special levies for capital replacement, maintenance and operation and for any nonfixed lien assessment bonds issued for the acquisition or construction of said improvements. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.253.  SUPPLEMENTAL REMEDY PROVISIONS.
	To the extent authorized under the California Constitution, the supplemental remedy provisions of Part 13 (commencing at Section 8800) of Division 10 of the Streets and Highways Code shall apply. This section is adopted pursuant to Section 43240 of the Government Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 6
MAINTENANCE DISTRICTS
SEC. 250.260.  NEW MAINTENANCE DISTRICTS.
	(a)	Whenever the Board determines it to be appropriate, the cost of capital replacement, maintenance and operation of any public improvement or facility of a local nature may be financed pursuant to proceedings undertaken pursuant to this Subdivision. Such proceedings are alternative to any other procedures available under general law or ordinance heretofore or hereafter enacted by the Board. 
	(b)	Board Powers: The Board may, by resolution, declare its intention to order that the costs and expenses of maintaining and operating any or all public improvements or facilities of a local nature, including the cost of necessary repairs, replacements, fuel, power, electrical current, care, supervision, and any and all other items necessary for the proper maintenance and operation, including replacements, improvements and extensions thereof, shall be assessed either partly or wholly upon such district as the Board shall determine will be benefited by the maintenance and operation of the public improvements or facilities proposed to be so maintained; the amounts so assessed to be collected in the same manner and by the same officers as taxes for City purposes are collected. 
	(c)	Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to provide an alternative procedure by which the Board may provide for the payment of the whole or any part of the costs and expenses of maintaining and operating any public improvements or facilities, or portion thereof, which are primarily local in their nature or benefit, payable from annual benefit assessments apportioned among the several lots or parcels of property within the maintenance district established therefor, the nature and formula or formulae for which is to be determined in the proceedings in which jurisdiction is provided therefor. 
	(d)	Resolution of Intention: The resolution of intention shall contain a statement of the formula or formulae upon and by which annual assessment levies for the payment of said costs and expenses will be apportioned according to benefits among the several lots or parcels of property within the maintenance district to be established therefor. The application of said formula or formulae shall not involve the exercise of discretion and said formula may prescribe a maximum rate or amount of annual benefit assessment to be levied for such purposes. Districts formed for parking or transit purposes shall also be subject to Subdivision 5 of this Subarticle. 
	(e)	Written Protests and Oral Objections: In connection with the hearing provided for the establishment of the maintenance district, owners of property within the district may file written protests against, may make oral objections to, and may be heard as to, the fairness of said formula or formulae in the same manner, at the same time and with like legal effect as provided for in other written protests and oral objections in Chapter 26 of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Streets and Highways Code. 
	(f)	Initial Modification: At the hearing, the Board, of its own volition or in response to any protest made, heard or considered, may make modifications in the formula or formulae for the purpose of making the same fairer and more equitable; provided, however, that before making a final order in said matter it shall set said matter for hearing at a subsequent meeting of the Board, which hearing it shall call or to which it may adjourn; provided, further, that it shall give notice of the time, place and purpose of said hearing by one publication in a newspaper in which the original resolution of intention or notice of improvement or notice of hearing on the formation of the maintenance district was published, at least 10 days prior to the hearing. If the formula or formulae includes a maximum rate or amount of annual benefit assessment and such modification consists solely of a decrease in such maximum rate or amount of annual benefit assessment, the Board may order such decrease by resolution and no hearing need be had thereon. 
	(g)	Majority Protests: If the Board finds that protests thereto are made by the owners of more than  of the area of the property in the maintenance district subject to benefit assessment to pay said costs of maintenance and operation, no further proceedings shall be taken for a period of six months from the date of the decision of the Board on the a hearing, unless the protests are overruled by an affirmative vote of the majority of all the members of the Board. The Board may adjourn the hearing from time to time. 
	(h)	Determination: At the initial hearing or at the subsequent hearing on the modification of the formula or formulae as herein provided or at any meeting to which either shall have been adjourned, or at any meeting of the Board subsequent to the full hearing of said matter, with or without the matter having been submitted, the Board, by resolution, shall finally adopt a formula or formulae for the apportionment of benefits in said annual assessment levies, which formula or formulae shall be that stated in the resolution of intention or said separate resolution, or as modified; and its determination shall be final and conclusive against all persons. 
	(i)	Subsequent Modification: If, at any time following the final establishment of the formula or formulae for the annual assessment levies, the Board shall by resolution determine that by reason of changed conditions or because of defects or insufficiencies therein disclosed by its application, the established formula or formulae is in any way or particular inequitable or unfair, or may be made fairer and more equitable, the Board may by resolution so declare, stating the reasons therefor, and fix a time and place of hearing thereon. 
	(j)	Id.-Notice: The Clerk shall cause a copy of such resolution to be published once in a newspaper in which the resolution of intention or notice of improvement or notice of hearing on the formation of the maintenance district in said proceedings was published; to be mailed, postage prepaid, to all owners of property within the district; and to be posted on or near the Board Chamber door or any bulletin board in or adjacent to the City Hall. Said publication, mailing and posting shall be completed not less than 10 days prior to the hearing. 
	(k)	Id.-Hearing and Determination: At the hearing, protests may be filed, heard and acted upon in the manner and with like effect provided for the original formula or formulae. 
	(l)	Budget-Contents: The Parking Authority, the Public Utilities Commission or other responsible agency, whichever is appropriate, shall annually cause to be prepared a budget for the costs and expenses of maintaining and operating any or all of said public improvements or facilities of a local nature or benefit during the ensuing fiscal year which shall at least include the following: 
		(1)	The gross amount estimated to be required for the costs and expenses of maintaining and operating said public improvements or facilities; 
		(2)	The balance estimated to be available at the end of the current fiscal year for such purpose;
		(3)	The amount, if any, anticipated to be available from revenues or charges for use or availability of such public improvements or facilities; 
		(4)	The amount, if any, to be contributed by the City or from other sources to pay any part of said costs and expenses; and
		(5)	The balance of the amount necessary to be raised to pay said costs and expenses.
	(m)	Benefit Assessment: The balance of such amount shall be raised by an annual benefit assessment on all of the lots or parcels of property within the maintenance district. 
	(n)	Report: In each fiscal year that such a balance is provided in the budget, the responsible agency shall cause to be prepared a report, in writing, for each maintenance district which report shall, under appropriate headings, show the necessary amounts to be provided for maintenance and operation, and by properly headed columns, show the following data as to each lot or parcel of property within such maintenance district in columnar form: 
		(1)	A description of each lot or parcel of property in the maintenance district, by a legal description, assessor's parcel number or other description sufficient to identify the same; 
		(2)	The amount of assessment to be levied against each lot or parcel of Property in the maintenance district in accordance with the formula or formulae; and 
		(3)	Such other information as will be necessary or useful in applying the formula or formulae adopted by the Board.
	(o)	Filing With Clerk: When the report has been completed, it shall be signed by the Director or the Manager of the responsible agency and filed with the Clerk. Upon receipt of that report, the Clerk shall place the matter on the agenda for a hearing by the Board. 
	(p)	Notice: The Clerk shall cause notice of hearing to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the City, and to be posted on or near the Board Chamber door or any bulletin board in or adjacent to the City Hall. Said publication and posting shall be completed not less than the 10 days prior to such hearing. 
	(q)	Hearing-Notice Form: The form of Notice shall be substantially as follows: 
NOTICE OF HEARING
ON ____________ MAINTENANCE DISTRICT 
	NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the  
________________________________________________
has caused to be prepared and filed with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors a report, in writing, which provides the basis for the benefit assessment for the following type(s) of maintenance and operation 
________________________________________________
________________________________________________
________________________________________________
to be borne by all lots or parcels of property within the existing maintenance district(s) No.(s) ____________, more particularly described in Exhibit "A" hereto attached and by reference incorporated herein. Said report sets forth the amounts to be provided in the budget for maintenance and operation, a description of each lot or parcel of property in the maintenance district sufficient to identify the same, and the amount of assessment to be levied for the fiscal year 19____________ against each lot or parcel of property in accordance with the applicable formula or formulae. Said report shall be open to public inspection. 
	(r)	Protests: The Clerk shall receive written protests and shall endorse on each protest the date and time it is filed with him. No protest received after the time fixed for hearing shall be timely, but the Board may, in its discretion, consider untimely and oral objections. 
	(s)	Adoption by Board-Decision Final: At the hearing, the report shall be reviewed by the Board and corrected, if necessary, approved and adopted by resolution. Upon approval and adoption as herein provided, all decisions and determinations of the Board shall be final and conclusive. 
	(t)	Certification and Filing: The report, together with the Certificate of the Clerk as to the fact and date of approval and adoption of said report by the Board as provided herein, shall forthwith be delivered to the Treasurer who shall thereafter deliver the report, as adopted, to the officer designated by law to extend ad valorem property taxes upon the tax roll on which they are collected. 
	(u)	Benefit Assessments-Posting: The officer designated by law to extend ad valorem property taxes upon the tax roll on which they are collected shall post to said tax roll the total amount of the benefit assessment levied and to be collected for said year on each lot or parcel of property within the maintenance district(s) as set forth in said report. The amount so posted shall appear as a separate item on the tax bill. 
	(v)	Method of Collection: The special benefit assessment shall be collected upon the last equalized secured and utility tax rolls upon which said ad valorem property taxes are collected. They shall be in addition to all of said ad valorem property taxes, and shall be collected together with and not separate therefrom and shall be enforced in the same manner and by the same persons and at the same time and with the same penalties and interest for nonpayment thereof as are said ad valorem property taxes. All laws applicable to the collection and enforcement of said ad valorem property taxes shall be applicable to said special benefit assessment levy; and the assessed lot or parcel of property, if sold for taxes, shall be subject to redemption in the same manner as such real property is redeemed from the sale for ad valorem property taxes, and if not redeemed, shall in like manner pass to the purchaser, except that the period of redemption shall be one year instead of five years. 
	(w)	Omitted Property: If any property within the maintenance district is erroneously omitted from any such report, said property shall be assessed for the omitted amount in the next year after such omission is discovered, and appropriate provision shall be made in the report for said year. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBARTICLE VI
ASSESSMENT BOND PROCEDURE
SUBDIVISION 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 250.270.  PURPOSE.
	When bonds are to be issued in any proceeding had and taken in connection with any public improvement, and/or acquisition, and/or immediate possession, and/or street closing, pursuant to this Procedure Code, the same shall be issued, paid and collected in accordance with this Subarticle. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.271.  DECLARATION IN RESOLUTION OF INTENTION.
	When the Board shall have determined that bonds shall be issued to represent the cost and expenses of any proposed work or improvement or of the possession or acquisition of any property in any such proceeding, it shall so declare in its resolution of intention therefor, and shall specify pursuant to which plan herein provided such bonds shall be issued, the maximum term that any of the bonds may run, the interest rate which they shall bear, provided, however, that such interest rate may be stated to be not to exceed a rate stated therein. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.272.  FORM OF BONDS.
	Whenever any bonds shall be issued pursuant to any one of the plans herein provided, such bonds shall be substantially in the form provided in the particular plan specified, with such appropriate changes in the wording of such bonds as to show that they had been issued pursuant to such plan of this Subarticle. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.273.  DATE.
	The bonds shall be dated as the Board shall determine; provided, that in a proceeding had pursuant to Subdivision 2 of Subarticle V, the written consent of the contractor and his assigns shall be obtained before delaying their date. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.274.  INTEREST.
	The interest shall be payable semiannually, except for the first payment which may be different, and computed from a date on or after the 31st day following the recordation of the assessment, subject, however, to Section 250.273 hereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.275.  SERIAL AMOUNTS.
	The bonds may be made to mature in such annual serial amounts as the Board shall determine. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.276.  DIVISIONS.
	The bonds may be issued in more than one division having different bond dates and dates from which interest shall run. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.277.  EXECUTION.
	The signature on the interest coupons and all signatures excepting one signature on the bonds may be printed, engraved or lithographed or other process. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.278.  SALE OF BONDS.
	When any bonds issued hereunder are to be sold, they may be sold by the Board as it shall determine. The proceeds of such sale shall be placed in the City Treasury to the credit of the fund for which they had been issued, and shall be applied exclusively to the purposes and objects thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.279.  PREMIUM.
	If any bonds be sold for an amount in excess of par, such excess shall be paid into the fund for the improvement, unless the Board shall otherwise determine. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.280.  REGISTRATION-AGAINST THEFT.
	Bonds may be registered against theft as provided in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 50,000), Division 6, Part 7, Title 1, or Article 7 (commencing with Section 43,880), Chapter 4, Division 4, Part 3, Title 4, of the Government Code, or as otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing their issuance. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.281.  ID.-AGAINST DELINQUENCY.
	Delinquent bonds may be registered as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 50630), Chapter 3, Part 1, Division 4, Title 4 of the Government Code, or as provided in the resolution authorizing their issuance. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.282.  MUTILATED, DEFACED, LOST OR DESTROYED BONDS.
	Bonds which have been mutilated or defaced or which have been lost or destroyed may be replaced as provided, respectively, in Article 2 (commencing with Section 53430) or Article 3 (commencing with Section 53460), Chapter 3, Part 1, Division 2, Title 4 of the Government Code, or as provided in the resolution authorizing their issuance. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.283.  DESTRUCTION OF PAID BONDS AND COUPONS.
	Bonds and coupons which have been paid may be destroyed in the manner provided in Article 11 (commencing with Section 53920), Chapter 4, Part 1, Division 2, Title 4 of the Government Code, or as otherwise ordered by resolution or ordinance of the Board. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.284.  PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS WITH MATURED BONDS AND COUPONS.
	Payment of all, or any portion, of any assessment levied to pay the principal or interest due, or to become due, on the bonds of any district formed under this Procedure Code may be made with matured bonds or matured coupons of such district. Such bonds and coupons shall be accepted and treated as cash, and when so received shall be cancelled; and the interest and sinking fund of such district shall be credited with the face value thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.285.  DISTRIBUTION OF SURPLUS.
	In the event of a surplus remaining in the redemption fund after payment of the entire principal and interest on all bonds issued under any plan mentioned herein, for retirement of which such fund shall have been established, such surplus shall, subject to any other special provision herein therefor, be applied first to repayment to the City of any balance due it for contributions and advances which it may have made to the redemption fund and of any special levies which it may have undertaken in aid thereof other than any regular annual assessments levied to retire any such bond, and of any monies due it for costs incurred or charges allowed, together with interest on such sums at the rate mentioned in such bonds. The excess, if any, shall be paid into the general fund of the City. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 2
BOND PLAN A-LOT BONDS
SEC. 250.290.  POWERS.
	The bond provisions of the Improvement Act of 1911, as such provisions may be amended from time to time, are incorporated in and made a part of this Subarticle. When bonds are issued pursuant to this Plan, except as otherwise provided herein, said provisions shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.291.  INTEREST.
	When the assessment is levied under Subdivision 2 of Subarticle V hereof, interest shall run from the date of filing the list of unpaid assessments. Otherwise, interest shall run from a date to be determined by the Board. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.292.  ASSESSMENTS UNDER $150.
	As an alternative method for the collection of such assessments which are of an amount less than $150, proceedings may be had in accordance with the alternative provisions of Subdivision 2 of Subarticle V hereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 3
BOND PLAN B-DISTRICT BONDS
SEC. 250.295.  POWERS.
	The Improvement Bond Act of 1915, as such Act may be amended from time to time, is incorporated in and made a part of this Subarticle. Where bonds are issued pursuant to this Plan, except as otherwise provided herein, said Act shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.296.  ASSESSMENTS UNDER $150.
	Bonds may be issued in the total amount of all assessments in amounts of less than $150 which are unpaid at such time, to mature at the same time as the maturity of the first series of the serial bonds, and which small assessments shall become due and payable at the same time as the portion of the greater assessments which shall have been collected for the payment of the first series of the serial bonds and the interest thereon.
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81) 
SEC. 250.297.  UNPAID LIST.
	The list of unpaid assessments filed with the Treasurer by the Director shall separately state in such list the total of the assessments which are of $150 or over in amount and the assessments which are under $150 in amount. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.298.  DENOMINATIONS.
	Bonds representing the amount of the total assessments remaining after division of the total into series of bonds of any multiple of $100 may be made to mature at the same time as the first series of bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.299.  CALLING BONDS.
	When sufficient surplus monies are in the redemption fund with which to call a bond, the Treasurer shall call and retire a bond in the manner provided in the 1915 Act; provided that the notice need only be given for a period of 30 days. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 4
BOND PLAN C-DISTRICT (LIABILITY) BONDS
SEC. 250.305.  POWERS.
	When bonds are issued pursuant to this Plan, the provisions of Subdivision 3 of Subarticle VI of this Procedure Code shall apply, except as herein provided. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.306.  BOND FORM.
	Appropriate changes shall be made in the form of the bonds to show that they have been issued pursuant to this Subdivision. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.307.  SUPPLEMENTAL ADVANCES.
	The provisions of the Improvement Bond Act of 1915 which require the City to advance, as a loan to the bond redemption fund from available surplus funds, the amount of any delinquent installment of principal, interest and penalties thereon, shall not be mandatory and shall not be enforceable. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.308.  SUPPLEMENTAL LEVIES.
	The provisions of the 1915 Act which require that the City shall cause to be levied a special tax of not to exceed 10\F on the $100 of taxable property in the City, if constitutionally available, shall be restricted to the taxable property within the assessment district created in the proceedings or other district deemed benefited thereby and described in the resolution of intention, and shall not be enforceable against the City as a whole. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.309.  ADVANCE PAYMENT AND CALLING BONDS.
	Section 250.299 applies to this Subdivision. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.310.  TAX DEED AND SALE.
	Upon the expiration of one year following the sale to the State by operation of law of any property for the nonpayment of an installment of the principal or interest of an assessment levied pursuant to this Subdivision, the Tax Collector shall make to the State a deed to such property. Unless said property has been redeemed, the City shall forthwith cause said property to be sold as provided in Subdivision 3 of Subarticle VI. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.311.  COURT FORECLOSURE.
	In the event the holder of any matured bond or coupon issued pursuant to this Subdivision shall make written demand upon the Board therefor, the Board shall bring and expeditiously prosecute to public sale an action to foreclose the lien of an assessment installment on any parcel of real property which has been delinquent for a period of three months. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.312.  FORECLOSURE BY BONDHOLDER.
	The holder of a matured bond or coupon may bring and prosecute to sale, in his name, the action to foreclose the lien of such assessment installment on any delinquent parcel of land, naming the City as a defendant therein. In such event such holder shall have all of the rights provided for foreclosure and sale by the City.
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81) 
SEC. 250.313.  BID.
	When property is sold by a court for nonpayment of principal or interest installments of an assessment levied in an assessment proceeding heretofore or hereafter taken, it shall be sold to the bidder who offers the highest price for the entire property to be sold, but not less than the amount due on the bond, together with accrued interest penalties and other costs hereby provided to be charged. The purchaser shall take the property subject to all installments of the assessment which are not included in the sale. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.314.  USE OF BONDS AND COUPONS TO PURCHASE PROPERTY.
	A purchaser of property upon foreclosure by the Board or by a bondholder, for the nonpayment of any installment of principal, interest, penalties, fees and charges of any such assessment, supplemental assessment or re-assessment, may pay for said property with, or apply on account of the purchase price thereof, matured coupons or the matured portions of a coupon to the date of its use, and matured and unmatured bonds of such issue, the delinquent assessments for which the property is sold. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.315.  BONDS AND COUPONS MAY BE USED TO PURCHASE OR REDEEM PROPERTY.
	The sheriff, commissioners or other person conducting any such sale is hereby authorized, for and on behalf of the owner, his successors and assigns, and any other person having an interest in the property, regardless of how such interest was acquired, to tender bonds and coupons of the issue for which such sale is held, in payment of the purchase price of property sold, or in redemption of said property, in satisfaction of the lien of delinquent installments or of unpaid assessments, and the penalties, interest fees and other charges. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.316.  OTHER BONDHOLDERS SHALL HAVE NO INTEREST IN APPLIED BOND PROCEEDS.
	To the extent that a bondholder purchases property at a sale and pays for it in cash, the monies received by the City shall be used and applied in payment of bonds of the issue and the interest due, owned by the purchaser, first to interest, second to the principal of matured bonds, and third to the principal of unmatured bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.317.  STREETS AND HIGHWAYS CODE SECTION 8688 SHALL APPLY.
	The provisions of Section 8688 of the Streets and Highways Code shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.318.  BONDS APPLIED SHALL BE AT PAR.
	At all sales herein referred to, bonds and coupons shall be taken and credited at the face amount thereof; provided, that sufficient cash or other legal tender is paid to take care of the expenses of the foreclosure proceedings and sale of the property, including a reasonable attorney's fee and court costs. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 5
BOND PLAN D-AD VALOREM (LAND) BONDS
SEC. 250.320.  BOARD POWERS.
	If deemed by qualified Bond Counsel for the City to be legally available under the California Constitution, the Board may issue serial ad valorem land bonds within any district created pursuant to any Subdivision of Subarticle V of this Procedure Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.321.  ASSESSMENT DISTRICT.
	The district to be assessed to pay the principal and interest of said bonds shall be described in the resolution of intention. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.322.  ZONES.
	If, in the judgment of the Board conducting the proceeding, varying benefits to be derived by the different parcels of land lying within the assessment district so require, the district may be divided into zones according to benefits. The district may be divided into as many zones, up to the total number of parcels of land in the district as may be deemed necessary, and each zone shall be composed of and include all parcels of land within the district which will be benefited in like measure. The Board shall also determine the percentage of the sum to be raised each year by the levy and collection of the special assessment taxes in the district for the payments on the principal and interest of the bonds, which will be raised from the lands in each zone. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.323.  ZONE DESCRIPTIONS.
	When the district is divided into zones the resolution of intention shall so state, giving the percentages to be raised from the lands in each zone. Each zone shall be designated by a different letter or number and shall be plainly shown on the map or plat of the assessment district filed in the office of the Clerk and referred to in the resolution of intention, either by separate boundaries, coloring or other convenient and graphic method so that all persons interested may with accuracy ascertain within which zone any parcel of land is located. It shall be sufficient in all cases where the assessment district is to be divided into such zones according to benefits if the resolution of intention states that fact and refers to the plat or map for the boundaries and all details concerning the zones. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.324.  ASSESSMENT PROVISIONS INAPPLICABLE.
	No assessment or diagram shall be made, and the respective provisions elsewhere in this Procedure Code with reference to the making, confirmation, recordation, levy collection, payment and enforcement of such assessment shall be and remain inapplicable to such proceedings. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.325.  REDEMPTION FUND.
	For each district in which bonds shall have been issued under this subdivision, a special fund to be named "Bond Plan D, Series No. ____________ Interest and Redemption Fund," or other designation sufficient to identify it, shall be instituted by the City. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.326.  ANNUAL ASSESSMENT.
	For each district in which an issue of bonds has been had pursuant to this Subdivision, until all of the bonds and interest thereon have been paid in full, the Board shall annually levy an ad valorem assessment upon all of the assessable lands within the assessment district created therefor, which shall be made and collected at the time and in the manner provided in Subdivision 6 of this Subarticle. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.327.  OTHER PROVISIONS.
	Excepting as in this Subdivision otherwise provided, all of the applicable provisions of Subdivisions 6 and 7 of this Subarticle shall apply; provided, however, that the supplemental remedy provisions referred to therein shall not apply unless expressly so provided in the resolution of intention and in the bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.328.  VOTER APPROVAL.
	Prior to the time that any bonds shall be issued, a proposition therefor shall have been approved by a majority of the qualified voters of the district voting thereon, at an election called and held for that purpose. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.329.  CALLING ELECTION.
	The election shall be called by resolution adopted by the Board, which shall contain: 
	(a)	The day on which, and if polls are to be provided, the hours during which, the election will be held;
	(b)	A statement whether the election will be conducted at polls or by mailed ballots;
	(c)	A statement whether the qualified voters will be registered voters or land owner voters of the district as defined in Section 2285 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; 
	(d)	The proposition to be voted on;
	(e)	A general description of the bonds and that they will be issued pursuant to this Subdivision and Plan;
	(f)	A statement of the maximum rate of interest that the bonds may bear;
	(g)	A statement of the general nature of the proposed improvements to be acquired or constructed;
	(h)	A general description of the district within which the election will be held and the bonds issued;
	(i)	A general description of any zones into which the district will be divided, and the percentages of the annual amounts to be raised therein; 
	(j)	A statement that the bonds and the interest thereon will be raised by annual assessments on the assessable lands within the district and any zones therein in the ratio of the assessed value of said lands; 
	(k)	A reference to the resolution of intention by number, title or date of adoption, and the maps or plats referred to therein, for a more particular description of the proposed improvements and district zones, if any. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.330.  POLL ELECTION.
	If the election is to be conducted at polls, the resolution shall either contain a description of the precinct or precincts, the polling place for each, and the names of two or more qualified voters who will act as precinct officers in each, one of which shall be a judge and the others clerks or shall direct the registrar of voters to prepare a notice containing such information. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.331.  MAILED BALLOT ELECTION.
	Whenever there are 500 or fewer qualified voters to vote at such election, the Board may declare in the resolution that the election will be conducted by mailed ballots, and that mailed ballots must be received by the Clerk on or before the day of the election. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.332.  PUBLICATION.
	A copy of the resolution and, if directed pursuant to Section 250.330, the notice shall be published twice in a newspaper of general circulation printed and published in the City. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.333.  POSTING.
	A copy of the resolution shall be posted on the bulletin board at the City Hall. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.334.  TIME AND PROOF.
	The posting and first publication shall be had not later than on the tenth day prior to the day of election, and affidavits or certificates thereof shall be made and filed with the Clerk. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.335.  PROPOSITION.
	The proposition to be voted on may be substantially as follows: 
	Shall the Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco be authorized to issue bonds in the aggregate amount of $____________ pursuant to Subdivision 5, Bond Plan D, Ad Valorem (Land) bonds, of Subarticle VI of the San Francisco Improvement Procedure Code, to provide funds for the costs and expenses of the improvements proposed to be acquired and constructed in and for the district as described in Resolution of Intention No. ____________ adopted by the Board on ____________/____________/____________, 19____________? 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.336.  MAILING BALLOTS.
	Sample ballots, in the event of a poll election, and official ballots, in the event of a mailed election, shall be mailed to the qualified voters at least 10 days prior to the day of election. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.337.  CANVASS, RETURN AND DECLARATION.
	Following the close of the polls in a poll election, the precinct officers, and following the day of election in a mailed election, the Clerk, shall count the votes cast and make a return thereof to the Board which, by resolution, shall declare the results thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.338.  SECRET BALLOT.
	The election shall be conducted in such manner that secrecy in voting will have been preserved. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.339.  COURT FORECLOSURE.
	In the event that after having anticipated delinquencies in the amount of 10 percent of the amount of an annual assessment levy there is still a shortage in the funds raised in the amount of 10 percent or more, as a cumulative remedy, the City, of its own volition, or a bondholder, may bring an action to foreclose the lien of the assessment installments so delinquent, and the provisions of Sections 250.311 through 250.318 of Subdivision 4 of this Subarticle shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 6
BOND PLAN E-AD VALOREM (REALTY) BONDS
SEC. 250.345.  POWERS.
	If deemed by qualified Bond Counsel for the City to be legally available under the California Constitution, the Board may issue serial ad valorem land and improvement bonds upon any district created under this Subarticle. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.346.  ASSESSMENT DISTRICT.
	The proposed district shall be described in the resolution of intention and established as provided in the Subdivision of Subarticle V pursuant to which said proceedings are had. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.347.  ZONES.
	If, in the judgment of the Board, varying benefits will be derived by the several parcels of real property lying within the assessment district, the district may be divided into zones according to benefits. Zones may be established as provided in Section 250.323 of this Procedure Code, the provisions of which shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.348.  IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
	If said proceedings are had pursuant to Subdivision 2 of Subarticle V hereof, then upon completion of the work, the person appointed by the Board to be in charge of the work shall prepare and file with the Board a declaration that the work has been completed according to the contract therefor, and shall further file an itemized statement of the cost of such work and of the expenses incidental to said proceedings, estimated to the conclusion of said proceedings. The amount of any contribution shall be stated therein as well as the balance for which bonds are to be issued. When the bonds have been issued they shall be delivered to the contractor upon his paying to the City any monies due it for incidental expenses as stated in the declaration. The Board may provide in the resolution of intention that the contractor shall be paid in cash from advances to be made to said project or from the proceeds of the sale of the bonds, in which event the bonds shall be issued as provided for the issuance of acquisition bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.349.  ACQUISITION BONDS.
	If the proceedings are had pursuant to Subdivision 2 of Subarticle V of this Procedure Code then, upon the entry of all interlocutory judgments in any eminent domain proceedings brought pursuant thereto, proceedings shall be had substantially as provided herein for the issuance of improvement bonds. The bonds shall be sold by the Board and the proceeds shall be used to pay the costs and expenses of the project. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.350.  MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT BONDS.
	If proceedings are had pursuant to Subdivisions 4 or 5 of Subarticle V of this Procedure Code, then in the resolution ordering the acquisitions or improvements the Board shall determine the estimated costs of said acquisitions and improvements and of the expenses incidental thereto, and the total estimated amount of the bonds to be issued. The bonds shall be issued and sold and the proceeds shall be used to pay the costs and expenses of the project. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.351.  POSSESSION BONDS.
	If assessment proceedings are had pursuant to Subdivision 3 or 4 of Subarticle V of this Procedure Code, and proceedings shall be had for the taking of immediate possession of the property to be acquired, then the person in charge of said proposed acquisitions shall prepare and file with the Clerk an estimate of the amount of money necessary to be deposited in court for immediate possession, and proceedings shall be had for the issuance and sale of bonds therefor as provided for the issuance of acquisition bonds. In such event the Board shall issue only such amount of additional bonds as is necessary to provide for the additional costs of said project, and the proceeds of the possession bonds shall be finally used to apply to the cost of the acquisitions and improvements and expenses incidental thereto. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.352.  NOTICE OF HEARING.
	The Clerk shall give notice of a time and place of hearing on the declaration filed in relation to the issuance of any bonds to be issued pursuant to Subdivision 2 or 3 of Subarticle V. Such notice shall be published. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.353.  FORM OF NOTICE.
	Said notice shall refer to the resolution of intention in the proceedings for identification, for a description of the work to be done or acquisitions or improvements to be had and for the boundaries of the assessment district, and notice shall be given therein to all persons interested that it is proposed to hear the report and issue bonds pursuant to this Subdivision, and that any person feeling aggrieved by any act or determination done or made in said proceedings or claiming that any previous acts or proceedings were irregular, defective, erroneous or faulty, or claiming that the work or improvement has not been performed according to the contract in a good and substantial manner, or claiming that any portion of the work or improvement for any reason was omitted or illegally included in the contract, or having any objections or reasons why bonds should not be issued in the amount set forth in the declaration and statement on file, may appear before the Board at the time and place so fixed by it and be heard. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.354.  HEARING.
	All objections shall be made in writing and signed by the protestant, and any grounds not stated therein and filed at or before the time fixed for hearing shall be deemed waived. The contractor or his assigns, and any other person or persons interested in said matter, may appear and be heard upon any of the matters referred to in said notice. The Board may confirm, amend, alter, modify or correct the report in such manner as it shall deem just, and require the work to be completed according to its directions or those of the person designated by it therefor. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.355.  ISSUANCE OF BONDS.
	In the Board's final order upon the hearing, or in the resolution ordering the acquisitions or improvements when the proceedings are had pursuant to Subdivision 4 or 5 of Subarticle V, the Board shall by resolution order the issuance of bonds. The resolution shall state the total principal amount thereof and the amount to mature in each year during their term. The bonds may be made to mature on July 2nd over a period not to exceed 40 years from their date. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.356.  BOND, FORM AND EXECUTION.
	The bonds shall be in such form, shall be executed by the officers, and shall be made payable at the place or places within or without the State as the Board shall determine. The bonds shall be negotiable in form and be payable to bearer. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.357.  ISSUES, SERIES, DIVISIONS.
	An issue of bonds shall constitute all of the bonds issued pursuant to a resolution of intention. Each issue shall be given a serial designation. The Board may, in its discretion, divide the issue into two or more divisions and fix different dates for the bonds of each division, in which event the bonds of each division shall be made payable at such time or times as the Board shall determine. Possession bonds shall constitute a division of an issue. All bonds of any issue shall have equal priority. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.358.  CALLABLE BONDS.
	Bonds are not subject to call or redemption prior to their fixed maturity date unless the right to exercise the call is expressly stated on the face of the bonds. Provision may be made therein for a premium on call. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.359.  SUPPLEMENTAL BONDS.
	If the proceeds of the bonds for any reason are less than the cost of the acquisitions and improvements and expenses incidental thereto, additional bonds may be issued by filing with the Clerk a declaration or statement of the amount necessary therefor and by giving notice and holding a hearing and determining the amount of bonds upon declaration, notice and hearing pursuant to Subdivision 3 or 4 of Subarticle II hereof. Said bonds shall be deemed a division of the bonds of the main issue. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.360.  INTEREST.
	Semi-annual interest coupons shall be attached to said bonds and be made payable on the second days of January and July of each year, excepting that the first coupon shall be for interest from their date to the second day of January next succeeding four months after the date of such bonds. Provision may be made for the payment of interest from the proceeds of the sale of the bonds for the period of acquisition and construction of the project and for one year thereafter. If, upon presentation at maturity, payment of any bond is not made as herein provided, interest shall continue at the same rate until the principal is paid in full. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.361.  AD VALOREM ASSESSMENT.
	For each district in which an issue of bonds has been had pursuant hereto, the Board shall annually, until all of the bonds and interest thereon have been paid in full, at the time of levying the taxes for general City purposes, levy an ad valorem assessment upon all lands and improvements within said district except publicly owned property, which levy shall be in an amount clearly sufficient, together with any monies which are or may be in the redemption fund and after making adequate allowance for estimated delinquencies to pay all of the principal of an interest on said bonds which shall become payable before the proceeds of another such levy shall be available therefor. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.362.  ID.-METHOD OF COLLECTION.
	Said special assessment levy shall be levied and collected upon the last equalized secured and utility tax rolls upon which general City taxes are collected. It shall be in addition to all other taxes levied for general City purposes, and shall be levied, computed, entered, collected and enforced in the same manner and by the same persons and at the same time, and with the same penalties and interest for nonpayment, as are other taxes for City purposes, and shall be subject to all laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of taxes for City purposes, and shall be subject to redemption in the same manner as such real property is redeemed from the salion fund of said bonds such amount or amounts as it shall determine. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.364.  VALIDITY OF BONDS AND ASSESSMENT RATE.
	All bonds issued and all assessments levied and collected pursuant to the provisions of this Subdivision shall by their issuance be conclusive evidence of the regularity, validity and legal sufficiency of all proceedings, acts and determinations in anywise pertaining thereto, and after the same are issued, no levy made or collected for the purpose of paying the principal or interest on said bonds shall be held invalid or illegal, or set aside by reason of any error, informality, irregularity, omission or defect in said proceedings, not amounting to a want of due process of law. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.365.  ISSUANCE OF NEW BONDS WHEN PROCEEDINGS FOR BONDS IRREGULAR.
	When any court of competent jurisdiction shall determine that any contract purporting to have been made, or any proceedings, steps or actions purporting to have been taken, or any bond or bonds issued, or any levy of assessment made, under this Subdivision, is or are void, invalid or unenforceable for any reason, or shall for any cause enjoin the issuance of any bonds proposed to be issued under this Procedure Code, said court shall also determine that new bonds shall be issued in the place thereof. The Board may also order the issuance of new bonds when it shall determine the existence of such voidness, invalidity or unenforceability. In such event, the Board shall cause a declaration to be filed which shall state the amount of any work performed, improvements made, acquisitions had, and the expenses incidental thereto, and the estimated cost of any improvements, acquisitions and expenses yet to be had. The declaration shall be noticed and heard and new bonds issued as herein provided for acquisition bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.366.  ALTERATION OF BOUNDARIES.
	The boundaries of the assessment district may be enlarged at any time in the manner provided in Subdivision 5 of Subarticle V. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.367.  ELECTION.
	The provisions of Subdivision 5 of this Subarticle relating to calling and holding an election, modified to conform to this Subdivision, shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 7
BOND PLAN F-BENEFIT BONDS
SEC. 250.370.  POWERS.
	There is hereby vested in the Board the power to issue benefit bonds within any district created pursuant to Subarticle V of this Procedure Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.371.  PURPOSE.
	The purpose of this Subdivision is to provide a procedure by which assessment bonds may be issued to pay the whole or any part of the costs of any public improvements or facilities which are primarily local in nature or benefit, payable from annual assessment levies apportioned among the several lots and parcels of land or real property within the district established therefor, the nature and formula or formulae for which is to be determined in the proceeding in which jurisdiction is provided therefor. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.372.  ASSESSMENT PROVISIONS INAPPLICABLE.
	The respective provisions of any Subdivision of Subarticle V pursuant to which said proceedings are undertaken to the contrary notwithstanding, no assessment or diagram shall be made, heard, levied or recorded, nor shall any amount of annual levies proposed to be made pursuant hereto be or become payable prior to their levy as herein provided. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.373.  RESOLUTION OF INTENTION.
	When the Board proposes to issue bonds pursuant to this Subdivision, its shall so declare in the resolution of intention pursuant to which the bonds are to be issued, the maximum term for which the bonds of any series of the issue may be issued, and the maximum rate of interest they may bear, and that bonds will be issued pursuant to this Subdivision. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.374.  ASSESSMENT FORMULAE.
	In addition to the matters required by Section 250.373 of this Subdivision, the resolution of intention shall contain a statement of the formula or formulae upon and by which annual assessment levies for the payment of said bonds and the interest thereon will be apportioned according to benefits among the several lots and parcels of land within the assessment district to be established therefor. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.375.  HEARING AS TO BENEFITS.
	At the hearing provided for establishing the assessment district pursuant to any Subdivision of Subarticle V of the Procedure Code, property owners may protest against and be heard as to the equitableness and fairness of said formula or formulae in the same manner, at the same time and with like legal effect, as provided for other protests in said proceedings. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.376.  INITIAL MODIFICATION.
	At the hearing provided in Section 250.375 of this Subdivision, the Board, of its own volition or in response to any protest made, heard or considered, may make modifications in the formula or formulae for the purpose of making the same more fair and equitable; provided, however, that before making a final order in said matter it shall set said matter for hearing at a subsequent meeting of said Board, which it shall call or to which it may adjourn; provided, further, that it shall give notice of the time, place and purpose of said meeting, by one publication in the newspaper in which original resolution of intention or notice of improvement was published, at least 10 days prior to said hearing. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.377.  FINAL DETERMINATION.
	At the initial hearing or at the subsequent hearing on the modification of said formula or formulae or at any meeting to which either shall have been adjourned, or at any meeting of the Board subsequent to the full hearing of said matter, with or without said matter having been submitted, the Board, by resolution, shall finally adopt a formula or formulae for the apportionment of benefits in said annual levies, which shall be that stated in the resolution of intention, or as modified, and its determination shall be final and conclusive against all persons excepting persons whose protests for grounds stated therein have been denied and who have brought action therefor, within 30 days following said determination, in the local superior court. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.378.  SUBSEQUENT MODIFICATION.
	If, at any time following the final establishment of the formula or formulae for said annual levies, the Board shall, by resolution, determine that, by reason of changed conditions or because of defects or insufficiencies therein disclosed by its application, an established formula or formulae is, in any particular, inequitable or unfair, or may be made more equitable and fair, the Board may, by resolution, so declare, stating the grounds therefor, and fix a time and place of hearing thereon. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.379.  NOTICE.
	A copy of the resolution provided in Section 250.378 shall be published once a week for two successive weeks, the first of which shall be at least 14 days prior to the day of said proposed meeting, in the newspaper in which the resolution of intention or notice of improvement in said proceedings was published. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.380.  HEARING AND DETERMINATION.
	At the hearing provided in Section 250.378, protest may be filed, heard and acted upon in the manner and with like effect provided in this Subdivision for the initial establishment and modification of said formula or formulae. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.381.  FORM OF BONDS.
	The bonds shall be of the form prescribed by resolution of the Board, shall be dated as the Board shall determine, and shall be numbered consecutively, be payable to bearer and be negotiable and serial in nature. They shall be payable on July 1st of each year in such amount as the Board shall determine. The first maturity shall be not earlier than 10 months after their date. The last maturity of any bond shall be not later than 40 years after July 1st next succeeding its date. The bonds, or any series, division or part of an issue, may be issued in registered form and may thereafter be deregistered and reregistered. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.382.  SEPARATE SERIES.
	The bonds may be issued in successive series, divisions or parts having different dates, terms and dates of maturity. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.383.  INTEREST.
	The bonds shall bear interest which, unless registered at issuance, shall be represented by coupons numbered consecutively, bearing corresponding bond numbers, payable on January 1st and July 1st of each year, or on such other dates as the Board deems appropriate, the first and the form of which shall be fixed and prescribed by the Board. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.384.  INTEREST AFTER MATURITY.
	If upon presentation at maturity, or if redeemable and duly called for redemption, payment of the bonds or any interest coupons thereof is not made in full accordance with the indenture of issuance, said bonds or coupons, or both, shall continue to bear interest at the rate stated in the bonds until paid in full. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.385.  CALLABLE BONDS.
	Said bonds may be made subject to call and redemption prior to their fixed dates of maturity with or without a premium, all as shall be prescribed by the Board; provided, that no bond shall be subject to prior call unless it shall so state on its face. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.386.  EXECUTION OF BONDS.
	The bonds shall be signed by the Mayor by facsimile signature printed, lithographed or engraved thereon. The bonds shall be manually countersigned by the Clerk who shall affix or cause a facsimile of the City seal to be printed, lithographed or engraved thereon. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.387.  EXECUTING AND CONTENTS OF COUPONS.
	The interest coupons shall be executed by the Treasurer by printed, lithographed or engraved facsimile signature impressed thereon. The interest for any interest period may be divided as to time or rate and represented by two or more coupons. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.388.  CONSTRUCTION FUND.
	The proceeds of the bonds shall be deposited in a construction fund which shall be created and maintained for each project. The monies in said fund shall be used solely for the acquisition and construction of the improvements and rights described in said proceedings, and the expenses incidental to said proceedings and the financing thereof, including, but not limited to, legal or other fees incidental to or connected with the authorization, issuance and sale of the bonds and the cost of printing the bonds. Such expenses may include interest on the bonds during the estimated period of acquisition and construction. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.389.  REDEMPTION FUND.
	A fund to be named "Bond Plan F, Series No. ____________, Interest and Redemption Fund," or other designation sufficient to identify it, shall be created and maintained for each issue of bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.390.  TRUST FUNDS.
	All monies which shall have been pledged or contributed to the payment of the bonds and the interest thereon, and all annual assessments levied therefor, shall be deposited in the redemption fund for such issue, shall constitute a trust fund therefor, and shall not be expended for any other purpose; provided that if any monies remain in the redemption fund after the payment of all the bonds and the interest thereon they shall be transferred to the City general fund, unless a maintenance, improvement or a service facilities district has been created for the improvements acquired and/or constructed from the proceeds of said bonds, in which event they shall be transferred to such fund, and be used for the objects and purposes thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.391.  BUDGET-CONTENTS.
	Unless the Board shall have directed the Chief Administrative Officer so to act, the Treasurer shall annually cause to be prepared a budget for each bond issue hereunder which shall include the following: 
		(1)	The gross amount required to pay the principal of and interest on the bonds and any premiums on bonds to be called, before the proceeds of a second assessment levy will be available therefor; 
		(2)	The gross amount proposed to be raised for the maintenance and operation of the City improvements or facilities involved, and any capital additions, extensions, improvements or replacements therein, during the period provided in part 1 of this Section; 
		(3)	The balance available at the end of the fiscal year for each of the purposes provided in parts 1 and 2 of this Section;
		(4)	The amount estimated to be available pursuant to any pledge of applicable revenues, which shall be budgeted and appropriated, for either of the purposes provided in parts 1 and 2 of this Section; 
		(5)	The amount estimated to be available from additional contributions, which shall be budgeted and appropriated, for either of the purposes provided in parts 1 and 2 of this Section; and 
		(6)	The balance of the amount remaining for each parts 1 and 2 of this Section.
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.392.  BENEFIT ASSESSMENT.
	The amount provided in Section 250.391, part 6, including provision for anticipated delinquencies, shall be raised by annual benefit assessments on all taxable lands or real properties within the assessment district, in accordance with the established formula or formulae, until all of the bonds and the interest to accrue thereon have been paid in full. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.393.  REPORT.
	In each year that a balance is provided in the budget pursuant to Section 250.391, Part 6, the Treasurer shall cause to be prepared annually, a report for each bond issue hereunder, which shall, under appropriate headings, show the amounts to be provided in the annual budget pursuant to Section 250.391 and by properly headed columns, show the County Assessor's description of each lot or parcel to be assessed, the amount of the levy applicable to said lot or parcel, and such other information as will be necessary or useful in carrying out the formula or formulae adopted by the Board for the particular issue of bonds to which said budget provision applied. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.394.  CERTIFICATION.
	When the report has been completed, it shall be endorsed by the Treasurer in duplicate and filed with the Clerk on or before July 15th of each year. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.395.  ADOPTION BY THE BOARD.
	If the formula or formulae adopted for an issue of bonds is sufficiently simple as to leave no discretion, it shall be reviewed by the Board and adopted and approved by resolution. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.396.  FURTHER BOARD ACTION.
	If the formula or formulae adopted for an issue of bonds requires the exercise of a discretion by the Board, further proceedings shall be had as provided in Section 250.397 through 250.402 of this Subdivision. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.397.  HEARING-DATE.
	Said report shall come on regularly for hearing by the Board at its first regular meeting held in August of each year. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.398.  HEARING-NOTICE-PUBLICATION AND POSTING.
	The Clerk shall cause notice of the hearing on the report to be given by one publication in a newspaper in the City, and by posting a copy of the notice on the bulletin board of the City Hall. The posting and publication shall be at least 10 days before the day fixed for hearing. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.399.  HEARING-NOTICE-FORM.
	The notice shall be substantially as follows: 
"NOTICE OF HEARING ON
PROJECT NO. ____________" 
"NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Treasurer has caused to be prepared and filed with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors a report which provides (1) the basis for levying benefit assessments on the properties within the assessment district created and established for the Project cited above, and (2) the amounts proposed to be levied for the fiscal year of ____________ upon the several lots and parcels in the assessment district created to pay the principal and interest of the bonds issued in said project, which report is open to public inspection." 
"Said report will be heard by the Board of Supervisors at its meeting to be held on the ____________ day of ____________/____________/____________, 19____________, at the hour of ____________ o'clock ____________.M., Board Chamber, City Hall, San Francisco, California, at which time said Board will examine said report and hear all persons interested therein and all objections, protests or other written communications." 
"Any interested person, objecting to the amount of the assessment on any parcel of land owned by him, may file with the Clerk a written protest thereon at or before the time herein fixed." 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.400.  HEARING-AFFIDAVITS.
	Affidavits or certificates of publication and posting of hearing shall be made and filed with the Clerk. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.401.  HEARING-PROTESTS.
	The Clerk shall endorse on each protest the date it is filed with him, and shall show whether said protest is filed prior to the hour fixed for hearing. No protest received after said hour shall be legal, but the Board may, at its discretion, consider said protests and hear the signers thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.402.  HEARING-BOARD DUTIES.
	At the time and place fixed for said hearing, or at any time to which said hearing is adjourned, the board shall: 
		(1)	Hear all persons having an interest in any real property within the district;
		(2)	Hear all objections, protests or other written communications from any persons interested in any real property within the district; 
		(3)	Take and receive oral and documentary evidence pertaining to the matters contained in the report;
		(4)	Remedy and correct any error or informality in the report, and revise and correct any of the acts or determinations of the director or of the person making said report as contained therein; 
		(5)	Make such discretionary determinations as may be required by the established formula or formulae;
		(6)	Amend, alter, modify, correct and confirm said report and each of the assessments therein.
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.403.  HEARING-DECISION FINAL.
	All decisions and determinations of the Board, on notice and hearing as aforesaid, shall be final and conclusive upon all persons entitled to appeal to it, as to all errors, informalities and irregularities which the Board might have avoided, or have remedied during the hearing on the report. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.404.  CERTIFICATION AND FILING.
	The report, endorsed and confirmed in accordance with Sections 250.394 and 250.402, together with the certificate of the Clerk as to the fact and date of approval by this Board, shall be delivered to the Tax Collector at or before the time for levy of property taxes for the fiscal year. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.405.  BENEFIT ASSESSMENTS-POSTING.
	The Tax Collector shall post to the County tax roll, in a column provided therefor, the total amount of the benefit assessment to be levied and collected for said year on each lot or parcel within the assessment district. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.406.  COLLECTION METHOD.
	Said benefit assessments shall be levied and collected upon the tax rolls upon which general property taxes allocated to the City are collected. Such assessments shall be in addition to all property taxes levied for general purposes, and shall be entered and collected together with, and not separate from such general taxes, and enforced in the same manner and by the same persons and at the same time, and with the same penalties and interest, as are property taxes for public purposes, and all laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of real property taxes for local purposes are applicable to said benefit assessment levies, and the assessed real property, if sold for taxes, shall be subject to redemption within one year from the date of sale in the same manner as such real property is redeemed from the sale for taxes and if not redeemed shall in like manner pass to the purchaser. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.407.  ADVANCE OF FUNDS.
	The Board may annually at, or prior to, the time the levy is made, or at such other time as it determines, advance as a loan or contribution to the redemption fund of said bonds such amount or amounts as it may from time to time determine. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.408.  PUBLIC PROPERTY EXEMPT.
	Public property, whether or not in use in the performance of a public function, shall be exempt from the levy of benefit assessments to service bonds issued pursuant to this Subdivision. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.409.  OMITTED PROPERTY-ASSESSMENT.
	If any parcel of property is omitted from the tax roll for any year in which such levy is made, it shall be added at the end of the roll and assessed as contained in the report herein provided. If any property is omitted in any such report it shall be assessed for the omitted amount in the next year after said omission is discovered, and appropriate provision shall be made in the report for said year. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.410.  VALIDITY OF BONDS AND ASSESSMENT.
	All bonds issued and all assessments levied and collected pursuant to the provisions of this Subdivision shall by their issuance or levy be conclusive evidence of the regularity, validity and legal sufficiency of all proceedings, acts and determinations in any way pertaining thereto, and, after the same are issued, no assessment levied or collected for the purpose of paying the principal or interest on said bonds shall be held invalid or illegal, or set aside by reason of any error, informality, irregularity, omission or defect in said proceedings not amounting to a want of due process of law. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.411.  CURATION.
	No assessment or bonds, or any order for their issuance, and no proceedings prior thereto, shall be held invalid by any court for any error, omission, irregularity, informality, or other defect in the same, where the resolution of intention has been published as herein provided. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.412.  DEDICATION.
	No proceeding taken or had under this Subdivision shall be held to be invalid on the ground that the real property, or a portion thereof, upon which the work or improvement or part thereof is to be done or was done has not been lawfully dedicated or acquired, provided the same has been lawfully dedicated or acquired, or an action for the acquisition thereof has been filed, or otherwise, at any time before judgment has been entered in any legal action or proceeding involving such issue. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.413.  DECISIONS FINAL.
	All the decisions and determinations of the Board, upon notice and hearing as aforesaid, shall be final and conclusive upon all persons entitled to appeal under the provisions of this Title, as to all errors, informalities, omissions, irregularities, and other defects, which the Board might have avoided, or might have remedied, during the progress of the proceedings, or which it can at that time remedy. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.414.  NEW BONDS-ISSUED WHEN PROCEEDINGS IRREGULAR.
	When any court of competent jurisdiction, or the Board of its own volition, determines that any contract purported to have been made, or any proceedings, steps or actions purported to have been taken, or any bond or bonds issued, or a levy of assessment made, under this Subdivision, is or are void, invalid, or unenforceable for any reason, or any court for any cause enjoins the issuance of payment of any bonds proposed to be or which have been issued under this Subdivision, or the payment of any pledge or contribution, or the levy of any annual benefit assessment, or any other action or determination which might or will affect the prompt and orderly payment of any such bonds or the interest thereon as they shall accrue, said court or the Board shall also determine that new bonds shall be issued in the place thereof. In such event, the Board shall cause a declaration to be filed which shall state the amount of any work performed, improvements made, acquisitions had, and the costs thereof and expenses incidental thereto, and the estimated cost of any future work, improvements, acquisition and incidental costs and expenses. Jurisdiction therefor shall be had after notice published and posted and hearing had as provided in Subdivision 4 of Subarticle V of this Procedure Code; provided, that there shall be no bar to said proceedings by reason of a majority or other protest against them. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.415.  EXISTING BONDS-SECURITY.
	If the invalidity is not in the bonds themselves or in the issuance thereof, the Board may so declare in the re-assessment proceedings. In such event, the reauthorization proceedings shall constitute the proceedings providing the legal authority for the issuance of the outstanding bonds, and the redemption fund created in any re-assessment proceedings shall constitute a trust fund for their payment. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.416.  EXISTING BONDS-EXCHANGE.
	If the invalidity is in the bonds themselves or in the issuance thereof, or if the Board so determines in the re-assessment proceedings, new bonds shall be issued and exchanged for the outstanding bonds. The new bonds shall mature in the amounts and at the times provided for the outstanding bonds, as nearly as may be. If the Board so determines, it may assign different bonds and allot maturities as it deems equitable. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.417.  SALE OF NEW BONDS-RETIREMENT OF OLD BONDS.
	If any part of the outstanding bonds have matured or will mature before the time for providing for the servicing of the new bonds, or if interest has accrued or will so accrue, the Board may provide for the issuance of additional new bonds in the amount thereof and for their maturity. If the holders of said outstanding bonds or coupons, or any other holders of outstanding bonds or coupons have refused to accept exchange of bonds therefor, the Board shall sell additional bonds in the amount thereof, and deposit the proceeds in the redemption fund. Said outstanding bonds shall forthwith become due and payable without premium, and shall no longer bear interest. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.418.  ALTERNATE BOND DATES.
	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Subdivision, the Board may provide that any bonds heretofore or hereafter authorized to be issued pursuant hereto, be payable on July 2nd in each year, and that the interest coupons be payable on January 2nd and July 2nd in each year, or on such other dates as it deems appropriate. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.419.  SUPPLEMENTAL REMEDY PROVISIONS.
	To the extent authorized under the California Constitution, the supplemental remedy provisions of Part 13 (commencing at Section 8800 et seq.) of Division 10 of the Streets and Highways Code shall apply. This Section is adopted pursuant to Section 43240 of the Government Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.420.  ALTERATION OF BOUNDARIES.
	The boundaries as formed pursuant to Subdivision 5 of Subarticle V and this Subdivision 7 of Subarticle VI may be altered from time to time in the manner provided in Section 250.248 of this Procedure Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBDIVISION 8
REFUNDING BONDS
SEC. 250.425.  PURPOSE.
	When, in the opinion of the Board, found and determined by resolution, by reasons of delinquencies or threatened delinquencies, or by reasons of changes in interest rates, the economy and general welfare of the owners of property within an assessment district will be served thereby, proceedings for refunding or advance refunding of outstanding assessment bonds may be had pursuant to this Subdivision. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.426.  GENERAL LAW ASSESSMENT BONDS.
	Special assessments and special assessment bonds heretofore or hereafter levied or issued pursuant to general law may be refunded pursuant to this Subdivision. The provisions of the Special Assessment and Bond Refunding Act of 1939, Chapter 5, Division 1, Title 6 (commencing with Section 59100) of the Government Code shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.427.  PROCEDURE CODE ASSESSMENT BONDS.
	Special assessments and special assessment bonds hereafter levied or issued pursuant to this Procedure Code may be refunded by proceedings had pursuant to Subdivision 4 of Subarticle V of this Procedure Code. The provisions of this Subdivision are to be read in pari materia with the provisions of Subarticles V and VI of this Procedure Code pursuant to which the former assessments were levied or bonds were issued. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.428.  REFUNDING BONDS.
	The refunding bonds shall be issued pursuant to the provisions of Subarticle VI of this Procedure Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.429.  AMOUNTS FUNDED OR REFUNDED.
	Refunding bonds may be issued in a principal amount sufficient to provide for the payment of all of the following: 
	(a)	The principal amount of the bonds to be refunded;
	(b)	The premium necessary to be paid in calling and retiring the outstanding bonds;
	(c)	The price in excess of the par value of bonds required to be paid for their purchase in the open market;
	(d)	Interest accrued, or to accrue, on the bonds to be refunded, to the date of their refunding or to the next interest payment date thereafter when required to be paid; 
	(e)	The costs of financial, legal and other technical services employed to accomplish the refunding;
	(f)	The costs of printing and advertising, and all other costs of the City incurred or to be incurred in the refunding proceedings; and 
	(g)	Interest on the refunding bonds from their date to the date they are delivered to the former bondholders, in exchange for former bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.430.  EXCHANGE.
	Refunding bonds may be exchanged for former bonds, in which event the holder of the former bonds and the Board shall agree upon the amounts and maturities of the bonds to be exchanged. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.431.  SALE.
	Refunding bonds may be sold in the manner provided in Subarticle VI of this Procedure Code, and the proceeds used to purchase or pay for all or any of the former bonds and costs of refunding. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.432.  REFUNDING PLAN.
	The Board may by resolution establish a plan of refunding and rules and regulations therefor, to be performed by the Chief Administrative Officer, Treasurer, or other persons designated by it. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.433.  DEPOSITARY OR TRUSTEE.
	The Board may appoint and provide a bank or other trust company to act as depositary or trustee, and to otherwise assist in the consummation of a refunding plan. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.434.  JOINT PROCEEDINGS.
	Proceedings for refunding bonds may be had in conjunction with proceedings for the acquisition or construction of public improvements or facilities pursuant to Subarticle V of this Procedure Code. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.435.  CONTRACT RIGHTS.
	Nothing in this Subdivision shall be construed as authorizing the City to violate any contract or other vested rights arising from the issuance or ownership of the former bonds. The City is authorized to and shall conduct a refunding proceedings and take all proceedings necessary therein to avoid the violation of a contract or vested right. To this end, the City may exercise in whole or in part the procedure therefor in any law or provide therefor itself. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBARTICLE VII
TEMPORARY BORROWING
SUBDIVISION 1
BOND ANTICIPATION NOTES
SEC. 250.440.  BONDS.
	Bonds mean bonds or other obligations or evidences of indebtedness of the City which have been or may hereafter be authorized but have not been issued and sold. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.441.  NOTE.
	"Note" means a Bond Anticipation Note to be issued upon the security of funds receivable from the sale of bonds and includes notes. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.442.  RESOLUTION.
	"Resolution" means the Resolution pursuant to which a Note is authorized and issued. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.443.  BORROWING.
	The Board may borrow money, the indebtedness of which shall be evidenced by a Note. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.444.  AUTHORIZING RESOLUTION.
	The issuance of a Note shall be authorized by Resolution of the Board for the City or in its representative capacity. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.445.  NOTE FORM.
	The Resolution shall contain a form of the proposed Note to be issued. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.446.  BOND DESCRIPTION.
	The Resolution shall describe the bonds, the proceeds of which shall constitute the source and security for the payment of the Note, sufficient to identify them. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.447.  NEGOTIABILITY.
	A Note may be made payable to order or be negotiable and payable to bearer. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.448.  CALLABLE NOTE.
	The Resolution may provide that the Note shall be subject to call and redemption prior to the maturity, at the option of the City, and state the manner of giving notice of redemption to the holder of the Note to be redeemed and the price at which the Note shall be subject to redemption. Such Note shall state on its face that it is callable, and no Note shall be so subject unless it contains such recital. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.449.  LIMITATION ON AMOUNT.
	A Bond Anticipation Note may be issued in such principal amount as is set forth in the Resolution authorizing its issuance, which may include interest on the Note for its full term; provided, however, that such Note shall not be issued in a principal amount at any time outstanding which, when added to the interest payable thereon for the full period of the Note shall exceed the authorized principal amount of the unissued bonds described in the Resolution authorizing the issuance of the Note. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.450.  DENOMINATION; TERM.
	A Note may be in any denomination and be payable not later than five years after its date of issuance. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.451.  PAYMENT SOURCE.
	Except as otherwise provided in this Subdivision, a Note and the interest thereon shall be payable solely from the proceeds of the sale of the bonds and the Resolution shall so provide. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.452.  BOND ISSUANCE.
	The City shall have a mandatory duty to diligently take all action legally necessary and appropriate to issue and sell the bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.453.  ASSIGNMENT.
	The Resolution may also contain an assignment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to the holder or owner of the Note as security for the payment of the Note and the interest thereon. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.454.  PLEDGE.
	The Resolution may also provide that the proceeds of the bonds are pledged to the payment of the Note and the interest thereon. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.455.  LIEN.
	Notwithstanding any other provision in the Resolution, or the absence thereof therein, the Note and the interest thereon shall constitute a first lien upon and charge against the proceeds of the bonds. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.456.  GRANT ANTICIPATION FUNDS; PAYMENT; ASSIGNMENT; PLEDGE.
	A Note may be paid from funds which have or will be received by the City from grants of the State or Federal Government, or both, toward the costs of the public improvements for which the bonds were authorized; and said funds may be assigned or pledged as additional security for the payment of the Note and the interest thereon. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.457.  OTHER FUNDS.
	A Note may be paid from other funds of the City, which may be lawfully appropriated, budgeted or paid therefor; provided, however, that no assignment or pledge thereof shall be made or be effective which shall be in violation of any provision of the Charter, the California Constitution or any law. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.458.  SAVING CLAUSE.
	No provision in this Subdivision as to any other source of payment of a Note or the assignment or pledge thereof shall be construed as or have the effect of diluting, diminishing or otherwise qualifying the obligation of the City to pay the Note and the interest thereon from the proceeds of the bonds, or of any assignment or pledge thereof or the lien thereon, excepting to the extent that said other funds shall have been used and applied in payment of said Note and the interest thereon. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.459.  TIME OF ISSUANCE.
	A Bond Anticipation Note may be issued from time to time as provided in the Resolution authorizing its issuance. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.460.  EXECUTION.
	A Note shall be executed in the manner provided in the Resolution. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.461.  ISSUANCE AND SALE; INTEREST.
	The Board may issue and sell a Note as it shall determine and direct, at public or private sale, at or below its par value and at a rate of interest not to exceed the rate, and shall be payable at the time or times and in the amount or amounts, as provided in the Resolution. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.462.  USE OF FUNDS.
	The proceeds of a Note may be used and expended by the City solely for the purposes for which the bonds were authorized. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.463.  REFUNDING.
	A Note may be refunded by the issuance of a refunding note in such amount or amounts as the Board may deem necessary to refund the principal of the note to be so refunded, any unpaid interest thereon, any discount and funded interest, and issuing expenses. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBARTICLE VIII
LANDSCAPE AND LIGHTING MAINTENANCE DISTRICT PROCEDURE
SUBDIVISION 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 250.470.  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
	It is the purpose and intent of this Subarticle to establish a method by which landscaping, statuary, fountains, or other ornamental structures and appurtenant facilities or public lighting systems and appurtenant facilities may be constructed, installed, and/or maintained, the costs of which are to be assessed to the property which is adjacent to or in the vicinity of such systems or facilities and which is receiving benefit therefrom; and it is further the intent and purpose of this Subarticle to establish a procedure by which such assessments may be collected. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.471.  COMPLIANCE WITH SUBARTICLE.
	Any proceedings taken or assessment levied pursuant to this Subarticle shall not be held invalid for failure to comply with the provisions of this Subarticle. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.472.  NECESSARY OR CONVENIENT PROCEDURE AUTHORIZED.
	Any procedure not expressly set forth in this Subarticle but deemed necessary or convenient to carry out any of its purposes is authorized. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.473.  NONEXCLUSIVENESS OF REMEDIES.
	The remedies provided in this Subarticle for the enforcement of any assessment levied pursuant to this Subarticle are not exclusive, and additional remedies may be provided at any time. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.474.  ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
	Proceedings under this Subarticle may be abandoned at any time prior to the confirmation of the assessments. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.475.  EFFECT UPON OTHER LAW.
	This Subarticle does not affect any other law relating to the same or any similar subject, but provides an alternative authority and procedure for the subject to which it relates. When proceeding under this Subarticle, its provisions only need be followed. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.476.  CONSTRUCTION.
	This Subarticle is to be liberally construed. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SEC. 250.477.  INCORPORATION OF THE LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING ACT OF 1972.
	The Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972 (commencing with Section 22500 of the Streets and Highways Code of the State of California, as said Act may be amended from time to time) is incorporated in and made a part of this Subarticle. Except as otherwise provided by this Subarticle or by supplemental ordinance, the mode and manner for making improvements and for levying and collecting the assessments shall be as prescribed in said Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972 as now or hereafter amended. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
SUBARTICLE IX
CERTIFICATION AND PUBLICATION
SEC. 250.480.  CERTIFICATION AND PUBLICATION.
	The Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this Ordinance and cause the same to be published as required by law. 
(Added by Ord. 225-81, App. 5/5/81)
ARTICLE 7:
MAINTENANCE DISTRICTS
Sec. 260.Definitions.Sec. 261.Creation of Maintenance DistrictsItems Maintained.Sec. 262.Levy and Collection of Assessments.Sec. 263.Order Declaring Intention to Recommend.Sec. 264.Designation of District BenefitedAllocation of Benefit.Sec. 265.Order Declaring IntentionProceedings.Sec. 266.ProtestsDecision of Director.Sec. 267.Action on ProtestRecommendationDiagram.Sec. 268.Recommendation That Maintenance District Be Formed.Sec. 269.Proceedings By the BoardDelay, ExtentMaintenance District Formed by Ordinance.Sec. 270.Abandonment of ProceedingsRenewal.Sec. 271.Description of Assessment District Required.Sec. 272.Maintenance Assessments.Sec. 273.Levy, Collections, and Expenditure of Funds.Sec. 274.City and County Payments.Sec. 275.Fund Transfers.Sec. 276.Contracts, Bid and Award Procedure.Sec. 277.Maintenance by City and County.
SEC. 260.  DEFINITIONS.
	As used in this Article. 
	(a)	"Director" shall mean the Director of Public Works;
	(b)	"District" shall mean Maintenance District established by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to this Article; and
	(c)	"Board" shall mean the Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco.
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
SEC. 261.  CREATION OF MAINTENANCE DISTRICTS-ITEMS MAINTAINED.
	The Board, pursuant to the procedure prescribed in this Article, may order that the expenses of maintaining and operating any or all items permitted to be constructed pursuant to Article 6 of this Code, including the cost of necessary repairs, replacements, fuel, power, electrical current, care, supervision, and any and all items necessary for the proper maintenance and operation thereof, shall be assessed, either partly or wholly upon the real property lying within the district to be benefited. 
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
SEC. 262.  LEVY AND COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENTS.
	The amounts so assessed are to be levied and collected in the same manner and by the same officers as ad valorem real property taxes for City and County purposes are levied and collected. 
(Amended by Ord. 91-81, App. 2/20/81)
SEC. 263.  ORDER DECLARING INTENTION TO RECOMMEND.
	The Director may make an order declaring his intention to recommend to the Board that they order a maintenance district formed. 
	(a)	Designation of Contemplated Work. Said order declaring his intention shall refer to the items to be maintained. Said order will be sufficient if it states in general terms the items to be maintained, such as tree planting, landscaping, sidewalk, street lighting, sidewalk furniture, and other items, and gives in general the scope of the proposed maintenance district. 
	(b)	Notice of Time of Hearing. Said order declaring the intention of the Director shall also contain a notice of the day, hour, and place when and where any and all persons having any objections to the proposed maintenance district may appear before the Director and show cause why the proposed district should not be formed in accordance with said order declaring the intention of the Director. The time shall not be less than 15 days or more than 30 days from the date of making the order. 
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
SEC. 264.  DESIGNATION OF DISTRICT BENEFITED-ALLOCATION OF BENEFIT.
	The Director shall make the expense of the district chargeable upon the district that in his opinion is benefited by such maintenance, allocating the expense to properties within the district in proportion to benefit as determined by an appropriate benefit formula not dependent on assessed value. 
	In the order declaring his intention the Director shall describe the district, declare it to be the district which will be benefited, and describe the benefit formula to be applied. 
	Such district may be described in the order by stating the exterior boundaries thereof, or by giving a description thereof according to any official or recorded map or maps, or by referring to the maps or block books customarily used by the Assessor and Tax Collector for City and County assessment or tax collection purposes, or by referring to a plat or map which shall be on file in the office of the Director at the time of making the order declaring his intention: said last-mentioned plat or map shall indicate by a boundary line the extent of the territory included in the proposed district, and, if referred to as hereinabove provided for, shall govern for all details as to the extent of such district. 
(Amended by Ord. 91-81, App. 2/20/81)
SEC. 265.  ORDER DECLARING INTENTION-PROCEEDINGS.
	A copy of the Director's order declaring his intention to recommend the forming of a district shall be published for one day in the official newspaper of said City and County. Such publication shall be made at least 10 days before the date fixed in said order for hearing by the Director. A copy of said order shall be posted in the office of the Director at least 10 days before the date named in the order for action by the Director. 
	(a)	Notice Requirements. Said Director shall cause notices of the making of said order to be conspicuously posted along all the streets within the district chargeable for the expense of the maintenance district, at not more than 300 feet in distance apart, on each street so posted, but not less than three on each street in such district. The notice shall be headed "Notice of Maintenance District" in letters of not less than one inch in height, and shall, in legible characters, state the fact of the adoption of such order of the Director declaring his intention, its date, and shall briefly describe the items proposed to be maintained, and shall refer to said order of the Director for further particulars. Said notices shall also set out the proposed district to be assessed to pay the expense of such maintenance district. Said district shall be described in the same manner in which it shall be described in the order of the Director deciding his intention as provided for in Section 264 of this Article. Said notice shall also state that it is proposed to assess the property within such district to pay the total or partial expense of such maintenance as the case may be. The notices shall also state that all objections to the proposed maintenance district or otherwise must be filed, in writing, with the Director before the day fixed in his said order for action thereon, or must be made orally on said day, or on the day to which action on said order may be postponed. The day, hour and place fixed in said order for action thereon shall also be indicated in said notices. 
	(b)	Mailing Requirements. The Director shall cause to be mailed, at least 10 days prior to the hearing, postage prepaid, a copy of such order to each property owner whose name appears upon the assessment book of the City and County current at the time of the making of such order, and whose property is to be assessed for the proposed maintenance district. In case any lots, piece or parcel of land liable to be assessed for such maintenance district be assessed on such assessment book to "unknown owners," then no copy of such order need be mailed to the owner thereof. 
	The mailing of such copy of such order shall be to the address as the same appears upon the said assessment book as indicating the address of the owner of the property to be assessed for such maintenance district; and in case no such address appears upon said assessment book, then the mailing of such copy may be made either to an address designated in the last issue of the city directory having relation to a name corresponding to that of such owner, if such a name appear therein, or to an address obtainable from any other probably reliable source of information that may be conveniently available to the person performing such mailing, or such mailing to such owner may be made to the general delivery of the post office at the City and County. 
	The Board, before ordering the contemplated maintenance district be formed, may, if they deem it advisable, require an affidavit to be filed showing that the foregoing requirement for the mailing such copies of the said order has been complied with. Such affidavit shall be conclusive of the facts therein recited. 
	Such requirement for such mailing of the copies of the order of intention shall not be deemed jurisdictional, and the failure of the said property owners, or any of them, to receive said copies of the said order, or any error or omission in relation to the said mailing of the same, shall in nowise affect the validity of the proceeding or prevent the Supervisors from acquiring jurisdiction to order the proposed maintenance district. Knowledge of the making of such order of intention acquired by any such owner, prior to the date of action thereon, in any manner other than by mailing to him a copy of such order, shall be deemed the equivalent of such mailing for all purposes to be subserved thereby. 
	(c)	Substantial Compliance. No proceeding shall be held invalid for failure to post any street or streets, as in this Section provided, if the provision of this Section has been substantially complied with. All posting hereby prescribed must be completed at least 10 days before the day set for hearing on said order of said Director declaring his intention. 
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
SEC. 266.  PROTESTS-DECISION OF DIRECTOR.
	At any time before the day fixed in said order of the Director for action thereon by the Director, any owner of, or person interested in, property liable to be assessed for the proposed maintenance district or the duly authorized representative of such owner, or other person, in his behalf, may make written protest against the proposed maintenance district, or to the extent of the district to be assessed therefor, or to the benefit formula proposed to be applied, or to more than one of the foregoing, or make any other protest with regard thereto. Such protest must be in writing, must contain a description of the property in which each signer thereof is interested, sufficient to identify the same, must set forth the nature of his interest therein, and must be delivered to the Department of Public Works of the City and County, the Secretary or a clerk of which shall endorse thereon the date of receipt thereof. No other protests or objections shall be considered by the Director, except oral protests made at the time at which the Director conducts the hearing mentioned in his order. At the time set for hearing protests the Director may publicly postpone action on his order from time to time, and all persons interested shall be deemed to have notice of such postponement and shall be governed thereby. The decision of the Director on all such protests shall be final and conclusive except in case of appeal to the Board as in this Article hereinafter provided for. 
(Amended by Ord. 91-81, App. 2/20/81)
SEC. 267.  ACTION ON PROTEST-RECOMMENDATION-DIAGRAM.
	If any protest against the proposed district or any other protest be sustained by the Director, he shall not thereby be prevented from commencing proceedings anew hereunder which shall embrace the same work and/or the same district or any part or parts of either or both thereof; and new proceedings may be had the same as if all such prior proceedings, no matter how many times instituted, had never been commenced. 
	If no protests be made against the proposed district, or if all protests made against the same be overruled by the Director, the Director shall accompany his recommendation to the Board that the proposed district be formed, with a diagram on which shall be delineated each separate parcel of land within the limits of such district, the approximate dimensions of each such parcel and its relative location to the work proposed to be done. The correctness of such diagram shall be certified by the City Engineer. 
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
SEC. 268.  RECOMMENDATION THAT MAINTENANCE DISTRICT BE FORMED.
	If the protests to the proposed district or other protests be all overruled, or if no protests be made, the Director shall, within five days from the date of his action upon his order declaring his intention, make an order recommending to the Board that it order such district be formed, and the Director shall cause a copy of said last mentioned order to be transmitted to the Board. 
	(a)	Appeal to Supervisors-Procedure. When any protests by persons having any interest in the property to be assessed have been overruled by the Director, an appeal may be taken separately by each such protestant to the Board from the decision of the Director. Each such appeal shall be in writing, and shall be signed by each protestant participating therein with his place of residence set down opposite his signature and with a description of the property in which he is interested sufficient for identification of the same. Such appeal must be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Supervisors within 10 days from the date of said Director's order recommending to the Board that the district be formed, and a copy of such appeal must be filed in the office of the Director within two days after the date of filing such appeal with the Clerk of the Supervisors. No appeal shall be considered by the Board unless the same be taken and perfected in the manner and within the time herein provided. 
	(b)	Order Overruling Protests. When the Director has overruled all such protests, he shall within five days after the date of such action make his order reciting such action, and therein recommend to the Supervisors that they order the proposed maintenance district be formed and transmit a copy of such order to the Board. 
	(c)	Hearing of Appeal-Notice. When an appeal or appeals shall have been taken as herein provided, the Board shall fix a time for hearing. The Clerk of the Supervisors shall thereupon notify the persons filing such an appeal or appeals of the time fixed for the hearing by mailing a notice thereof, postage prepaid, addressed to each of said persons at his address as given in such notice of appeal. The affidavit of said Clerk of said mailing shall be conclusive of the fact. 
	At the time so fixed for hearing the appeal, the Board shall hear and pass upon the same. Such hearing may be continued from time to time and all persons interested shall be deemed to have notice thereof and shall be governed thereby. 
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
SEC. 269.  PROCEEDINGS BY THE BOARD-DELAY, EXTENT-MAINTENANCE DISTRICT FORMED BY ORDINANCE.
	The Board, if they do not deny such appeal, may by resolution delay further proceedings in relation to the proposed maintenance district for not more than one year from the date of the adoption of such resolution. 
	Upon petition of the appellants the Board may continue with the proceedings from time to time during said period of delay. 
	Upon expiration of the period of delay so fixed by the Board, the Director may again recommend to the Board that the proposed district be formed, and thereupon the Board, after notice to the appellants as provided for in Section 268 of this Article, shall order the district be formed or may declare an abandonment of all proceedings theretofore had in the manner. 
	The ordering of any proposed maintenance district shall be by ordinance. 
(Amended Ord. by 443-74, App. 9-18-74)
SEC. 270.  ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS-RENEWAL.
	The Director at any stage of the proceedings for any proposed maintenance district prior to action by the Board upon his recommendation that they order the same done, may by order abandon any or all proceedings theretofore had in relation to such proposed district; and the Director may commence said proceedings anew and continue the same from any part of said proceedings not so abandoned. If the Director abandons any or all proceedings after his making an order of recommendation and before action thereon by the Board, he shall cause notice of such fact forthwith to be transmitted to the Board, and the Board shall take no action upon the recommendation in such case. 
	If the Board pass an ordinance ordering any proposed maintenance district formed pursuant to this Article, it may upon recommendation of Director repeal such ordinance ordering such maintenance district. 
	The Director, from time to time after he has abandoned any proceedings for any proposed maintenance district pursuant to this Article, may institute and continue proceedings hereunder for the maintenance district theretofore proposed and abandoned, or for such district or modified maintenance district as he may determine the public interest or convenience requires, all in accordance with the procedure prescribed in this Article. 
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
SEC. 271.  DESCRIPTION OF ASSESSMENT DISTRICT REQUIRED.
	The ordinance ordering the district formed shall contain a description of the district similar to that contained in said order of the Director declaring his intention. 
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
SEC. 272.  MAINTENANCE ASSESSMENTS.
	The Board shall thereafter, in each year, prior to the time of fixing the City and County tax rate, estimate the cost of maintaining and operating the said items to be maintained and operated within said maintenance district during the ensuing year. The Board shall decide whether or not the cost of the same shall be borne wholly or partially by the said maintenance district and shall, in addition to all other taxes and assessments, fix annual special assessments for the real property within said maintenance district sufficient to raise an amount of money to cover the entire expense of maintaining said improvements during the ensuing years, or such portion of said amount as the Board shall determine shall be borne by said district, and the Supervisors shall levy a special assessment each year upon the real property in such district, allocated to individual properties within the district according to the benefit formula for that district, in an amount sufficient to pay such entire annual expense, or the portion thereof which must be paid by the district. 
(Amended by Ord. 91-81, App. 2/20/81)
SEC. 273.  LEVY, COLLECTIONS, AND EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.
	The special assessments shall be levied and collected at the same time and in the same manner as the general ad valorem real property tax levy for City and County purposes and when collected shall be paid into the City Treasury to the credit of the fund of the maintenance district and be used for the payment of the expenses of such district. The Board may control and order the expenditure thereof for such purposes. 
(Amended by Ord. 91-81, App. 2/20/81)
SEC. 274.  CITY AND COUNTY PAYMENTS.
	The Board may determine that the whole or any part of the expense of such maintenance shall be paid by the City and County. If the City and County is to contribute toward the expenses of such maintenance the declaration of intention and ordinance shall so provide. When such provision is made the execution of the contract for maintenance shall create an obligation on the City and County to make the contribution provided for in declaration of intention and Ordinance. 
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
SEC. 275.  FUND TRANSFERS.
	The Board may temporarily transfer moneys to the maintenance district fund from other funds in which such moneys are not immediately needed. The money so transferred shall be used for the purposes provided in this Article and be retransferred from the maintenance district fund out of the first available receipts. 
	If a district is organized in any year too late for the levy of special assessments in that year or in the next ensuing year, the Supervisors are hereby authorized to transfer funds of the City and County not immediately needed for City and County purposes to the maintenance district fund of the district to be used for the payment of the expenses of such district until such time as special assessment receipts are available therefor. The Board shall include in the levy of special assessments for the district for the first fiscal year in which a special assessment may be levied, a sum sufficient to repay to the City and County the amounts so transferred to the district for the portion or portions of the preceding fiscal year or years for which no levy of special assessments was made for the purpose and the amounts so transferred shall be retransferred to the City Treasury from the maintenance district fund of the district out of the first available receipts from the tax levy. 
(Amended by Ord. 91-81, App. 2/20/81)
SEC. 276.  CONTRACTS, BID AND AWARD PROCEDURE.
	All contracts shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder as prescribed in Sections 200 to 214 inclusive, of Article 6, of this Code. 
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
SEC. 277.  MAINTENANCE BY CITY AND COUNTY.
	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as prohibiting the City and County itself from maintaining and operating any or all of the improvements when ordered by the Supervisors and from purchasing the materials and supplies and employing the labor necessary for such purpose. 
(Amended by Ord. 443-74, App. 9/18/74)
ARTICLE 8:
[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 9:
UNACCEPTED STREETS
Sec. 400.Notice to Repair.Sec. 400.1.Owners of Frontage Responsible for Removal of Rubbish or Debris From Unaccepted Streets That Are Unpaved.Sec. 400.2.Director of Public Works Authorized to Notify Owners to Remove Rubbish or Debris.Sec. 400.3.Notice to Owner.Sec. 400.4.Contents of Notice.Sec. 400.5.Director of Public Works to Remove Rubbish or Debris if Owner Fails To Do So.Sec. 400.6.Notice of Cost and Claim of Lien, and Recording of Lien.Sec. 400.7.Recording of Lien.Sec. 400.8.Collection by Bureau of Delinquent Revenue.Sec. 400.9.Release of Lien.Sec. 400.10.Revolving Fund.Sec. 401.Repair of Temporary Road or Street.Sec. 405.ApplicationInvestigationPermit.Sec. 406.Permission When GrantedProcedure.Sec. 407.Sewers, When Improvement Made by Private Contract.Sec. 408.Provisions Not Applicable.Sec. 409.Improvement of Public Street Crossings.Sec. 410.Application, What to AccompanyVerification.Sec. 411.ApprovalTime LimitationCertificate of Completion.Sec. 412.Failure to Complete Work Within Limited Time.Sec. 413.Surety Bond or Certified Check Required.Sec. 414.Liability Not Affected by Assignment of ContractsRecordationNotice.Sec. 415.Investigation of Signatures.Sec. 416.Improvement by Individual Owner.Sec. 417.Existing Contracts Confirmed.Sec. 422.Undedicated StreetsSale of Lots Prohibited.Sec. 423.Objection to Similar Names.Sec. 424.Penalty.
SEC. 400.  NOTICE TO REPAIR.
	(a)	When, in the judgment of the Director of the Department of Public Works, any portion of the improved, but unaccepted public right-of-way that is under the jurisdiction and control of the Department of Public Works, including, but not limited to, a street, avenue, lane, alley, court or place, or any portion of any sidewalk thereof, shall be so out of repair or in such condition as to endanger persons or property passing thereon, or so as to interfere with the public convenience in the use thereof, the Director is authorized to notify in writing the owner or owners of any lot fronting on said portion of said affected public right-of-way that such owner is required to repair, reconstruct, or improve forthwith the affected public right-of-way, to the centerline thereof, in such manner and time period as the Director deems expedient and appropriate. 
	(b)	If the responsible property owner(s) notified pursuant to Subsection (a) is inaccessible or fails, neglects, or refuses to diligently prosecute to completion the remedial work in the manner and time period specified by the Director, then the Director may undertake all necessary actions to remedy the condition. All costs expended by the Director shall be an obligation of the responsible property owner(s) owing to the City and County of San Francisco. Such costs shall include, but are not limited to, those costs associated with the administration, construction, consultants, equipment, inspection, notification, remediation, repair, restoration, or any other actual costs incurred by the Director or other agencies, boards, commissions, or departments of the City and County of San Francisco that were made necessary by reason of the Director's remediation. 
	(c)	In order to enforce an obligation imposed pursuant to Subsection (b), the Director is authorized to institute the lien procedures that are set forth in this Code, Article 15, Sections 706.4 through 707.1. 
(Amended by Ord. 342-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 400.1.  OWNERS OF FRONTAGE RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVAL OF RUBBISH OR DEBRIS FROM UNACCEPTED STREETS THAT ARE UNPAVED.
	It shall be the duty of the owners of lots or portions of lots immediately adjacent to any portion of the roadway of any unpaved street, avenue, lane, alley, court or place, or any portion of any sidewalk thereof, in the City and County of San Francisco, none of which has been accepted by the Supervisors as by law or as in the Charter of said City and County provided, to maintain said roadways or sidewalks adjacent to their property free and clear of rubbish or debris. 
(Added by Ord. 16-71, App. 1/26/71)
SEC. 400.2.  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORIZED TO NOTIFY OWNERS TO REMOVE RUBBISH OR DEBRIS.
	When in the judgment of the Director of the Department of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco or his authorized representative, any portion of the roadway of any unpaved street, avenue, lane, alley, court or place, or any portion of any sidewalk thereof, in the said City and County, none of which has been accepted by the Supervisors as by law or as in the Charter of said City and County provided, shall contain rubbish or debris in such quantity so as to endanger persons or property passing thereon, or so as to interfere with the public convenience in the use thereof, or which consists, in whole or in part, of combustible material, the Director is authorized to notify the owner of any real property fronting on said portion of said unpaved street, avenue, lane, alley, court or place, or sidewalk so containing rubbish or debris as aforesaid, to remove such rubbish or debris. 
(Added by Ord. 16-71, App. 1/26/71)
SEC. 400.3.  NOTICE TO OWNER.
	The notice shall be written and may be given by delivery personally or by mailing a notice, either by letter or postal card, postage prepaid, to his last known address, as the same appears on the last assessment rolls of the City and County of San Francisco. Immediately after mailing any such notice, the Director of Public Works shall cause a copy thereof, printed or pasted on a card of not less than eight inches by 10 inches in size, to be posted in a conspicuous place on said property. 
(Added by Ord. 16-71, App. 1/26/71)
SEC. 400.4.  CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
	Such notice shall direct the owner to remove such rubbish or debris in such manner as the said Director of Public Works may determine and direct, from said portion of said unpaved street, avenue, lane, alley, court or place, to the center line thereof, or said portion of said sidewalk in front of said property, and shall further specify that, if the removal of rubbish or debris is not commenced within five calendar days after notice is given as aforesaid and prosecuted to completion diligently and without interruption, the Director of Public Works shall remove or cause to be removed such rubbish or debris and the cost of the same shall be a lien on such property. 
(Added by Ord. 16-71, App. 1/26/71)
SEC. 400.5.  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS TO REMOVE RUBBISH OR DEBRIS IF OWNER FAILS TO DO SO.
	If the removal of rubbish or debris is not commenced and prosecuted to completion with due diligence, as required by said notice, the Director of Public Works shall remove or cause to be removed the rubbish or debris. The cost of such removal shall be an obligation to the City and County of San Francisco owing by the owner of the adjacent property, and the City and County shall have a lien on the adjacent property. Both such obligation and lien shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 400.6, 400.7, 400.8, and 400.9 of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 16-71, App. 1/26/71)
SEC. 400.6.  NOTICE OF COST AND CLAIM OF LIEN, AND RECORDING OF LIEN.
	Upon completion of the work of removing the rubbish or debris, the Director of Public Works shall ascertain the cost thereof, apportioning the same if the area from which the rubbish or debris is removed is next adjacent to more than one lot of land. The owner of such lot of land shall thereupon be obligated to the City and County of San Francisco in the amount of such cost of removal of rubbish or debris and the City and County shall thereupon have a lien for such cost of removal of rubbish or debris upon any such lot of land until payment thereof. On ascertaining the cost of removal of rubbish or debris as aforesaid, the Director of Public Works shall cause notice thereof to be mailed in the manner herein provided for mailing notice to remove rubbish or debris, which notice shall demand payment thereof to the Director of Public Works, and shall give notice that a lien therefor has been recorded. 
(Added by Ord. 16-71, App. 1/26/71)
SEC. 400.7.  RECORDING OF LIEN.
	Upon ascertaining the cost of removal of rubbish or debris as described in Section 400.6 hereof, the Director of Public Works shall file in the office of the Recorder of the City and County of San Francisco a verified claim containing a particular description of the property subject to such lien, the place and general nature of the work of removing rubbish or debris for which lien is claimed, the dates of mailing or delivery of notice to remove rubbish or debris and cost of the removal, the name of the owner of the property as aforesaid and the amount of the lien claimed. 
(Added by Ord. 16-71, App. 1/26/71)
SEC. 400.8.  COLLECTION BY BUREAU OF DELINQUENT REVENUE.
	Ninety days after the mailing of the notice described in Section 400.6 hereof, the Director of Public Works shall transmit to the Bureau of Delinquent Revenue a statement of each unpaid cost of removing rubbish or debris. The Bureau shall endeavor diligently to collect the same on behalf of the City and County by foreclosure of the lien therefor or otherwise. Any and all amounts paid or collected shall replenish the revolving fund hereinafter provided. 
(Added by Ord. 16- 71, App. 1/26/71)
SEC. 400.9.  RELEASE OF LIEN.
	On payment of any such claim of lien, the Director of Public Works shall release such claim of lien and file the release in the office of the Recorder of the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 16-71, App. 1/26/71)
SEC. 400.10.  REVOLVING FUND.
	A fund shall be provided to cover initially the cost of removal of rubbish or debris as provided in Section 400.5 hereof, said fund to be a revolving fund and replenished by appropriations and by all moneys paid or collected for rubbish or debris removal and liens therefor as herein provided. 
(Added by Ord. 16-71, App. 1/26/71)
SEC. 401.  REPAIR OF TEMPORARY ROAD OR STREET.
	Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this Article the Director of Public Works shall have power and its shall be his duty to repair, out of funds as may be from time to time appropriated or set aside for the purpose, any temporary road or street which has been constructed by this City and County with public funds. 
SEC. 405.  APPLICATION-INVESTIGATION-PERMIT.
	Application for permission to do any street work in or upon any unaccepted public street in the City and County of San Francisco by private contract must be made in writing to the Director of Public Works, which application shall contain a comprehensive description of the work to be done. Said Director shall thereupon investigate such application, and if after investigation the Director determines that the public interest or convenience requires the doing of the proposed work and that the same is expedient and will not be productive of detriment to the public safety or convenience, he is hereby authorized to grant permission for the doing of the same as applied for or as modified by the direction of the City Engineer, subject to the conditions and provisions in this Article hereinafter prescribed and provided. 
SEC. 406.  PERMISSION WHEN GRANTED-PROCEDURE.
	(a)	Owners of All Frontage Enter Into Contract. No permission for the doing of any street work in or upon any unaccepted public street in the City and County of San Francisco, except in the case of main sewer construction, or the improvement of a street crossing or intersection as hereinafter provided for, shall be granted in pursuance of the provisions of this Article, unless the owners of all of the improvable frontage on a block of the street whereon or wherein such work is proposed to be done, or the authorized agents of such owners, shall have entered into a written contract for the doing thereof, then and in such case said Director may grant permission for the making of same. 
	(b)	Prior Proceedings Instituted by Owners of 60 Percent of Frontage. Provided, however, that if the applicant for a permit to do any street work in or upon any unaccepted public street shall, subsequent to the 28th day of January, 1935, obtain contracts for the doing of said work from the owners, or authorized agents of the owners, of 60 percent or more of the frontage upon a street, between main intersections, proposed to be improved, as delineated upon a diagram accompanying the application, then the Director of Public Works shall, within 30 days after receipt of the application, accompanied by said contracts, or photostatic copies thereof, institute public proceedings, in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of this Chapter, for the improvement of the portion or portions, between said intersections, of the street proposed to be improved, for which applicant filed no contract or contracts. 
	(c)	Procedure for Public Work-Permit for Private Work. If the order of the Director of Public Works requiring the improvement of the portion or portions of the work not included in the private contract or contracts, be sustained by the Board of Supervisors, then the Director of Public Works shall call for bids for the construction of the portion or portions ordered done under public proceedings, and when the Director of Public Works shall award the contract for the portion of the work to be done under public proceedings, the Director of Public Works shall at the same time issue a permit to the contractor who has filed the contract or contracts for the balance of the work on the particular project. 
	(d)	Bids May Be Rejected and Proceedings Dismissed. Whenever in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, there are not a sufficient number of bids to constitute free and satisfactory competition for the contract under public proceedings, the Director of Public Works shall reject all bids and dismiss public proceedings. 
	(e)	Underground Service Facilities. Any contract herein authorized shall include provision for all necessary underground service facilities. 
SEC. 407.  SEWERS, WHEN IMPROVEMENT MADE BY PRIVATE CONTRACT.
	Where the construction of a main sewer is deemed by the Director of Public Works and the City Engineer to be necessary in any block proposed to be improved by private contract, then and in such case no work, except grading, involving the construction of a pavement on such block, shall be permitted to be done until such main sewer shall have been constructed with side sewers and other appurtenances as in this Section hereinafter provided for and regulated. 
	Where a main sewer has already been constructed in a block and side sewers and other appurtenances to such main sewer are deemed necessary by the said Director and City Engineer, the construction of the same shall be conditioned for in the private contract in this Article referred to. 
	In the case of the construction of a main sewer in any block, no permission for the construction of the same by private contract shall be granted unless such contract is signed and conditioned for the construction of such sewer for its entire serviceable length between the main street crossings, or main street intersections, as may be determined by the City Engineer, with side sewers and other expedient and essential appurtenances as may be required by the City Engineer, under such regulations as may be prescribed by him, and approved by the Director of Public Works. 
SEC. 408.  PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE.
	The provisions of Sections 105 to 113, inclusive, of Article 4 of this Chapter regulating the construction, reconstruction or repair of private side sewers or drains and the connection thereof with main public sewers, shall not be deemed applicable to the construction of side sewers by private contract under and pursuant to the provisions of this Article. 
SEC. 409.  IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC STREET CROSSINGS.
	Permission for the improvement of a public street crossing or intersection shall not be granted unless the owners of at least a majority of the frontage of the lots and lands liable for the cost thereof, or the authorized agents of such owners, shall have entered into contract therefor, such frontage being determinable according to method provided in the Improvement Act of 1911 of the State of California as said act provides on the 28th day of January, 1935, for determining the frontage liable for the improvement of street crossings or intersections. 
SEC. 410.  APPLICATION, WHAT TO ACCOMPANY-VERIFICATION.
	Two original contracts, or two photostatic copies of the original contract, for the doing of any proposed street work pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall accompany the application for permission to do the proposed work together with a diagram showing thereon the lots and lands signed for by the respective owners thereof, or by their agents, as indicated in such contract and the respective frontages so signed for; and to such contracts accompanying such application there shall be attached affidavits sworn to before a notary public that the signatures of said owners or their agents respectively appearing in such contracts, are genuine, and were to the actual knowledge of affiant subscribed by said owners or said agents, respectively, and that the frontage set opposite the said signatures, severally, is correct according to affiant's best information and belief. 
SEC. 411.  APPROVAL-TIME LIMITATION-CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION.
	The work proposed to be done under such private contract must be of a class or type approved and recommended by the City Engineer. Such work must be done under the direction and to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works and the materials to be used therein must be in accordance with specifications adopted by the Director of Public Works for similar work, and be to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works. 
	The Director of Public Works shall fix the time within which the work shall be completed which time shall begin to run from the date of the order of said Director granting the permission for the doing of the same. 
	When the work shall have been completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer and the Director of Public Works, the said Director shall so declare by order, and thereupon deliver to the contractor a certificate to that effect. 
SEC. 412.  FAILURE TO COMPLETE WORK WITHIN LIMITED TIME.
	In case the work to be done by private contract, as hereinbefore provided for, shall not have been completed within the time limited in the order of permission or within such extended time as may be granted by the Director of Public Works, then said Director shall by order revoke the permission theretofore granted for doing such work. 
SEC. 413.  SURETY BOND OR CERTIFIED CHECK REQUIRED.
	No permission for doing any street work by private contract under and pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall become effective until the contractor covenanting to perform the same shall have executed to the City and County of San Francisco, and delivered to the Secretary of the Department of Public Works a bond in such amount as may have been fixed in the order of the said Director, granting such permission, with some surety company authorized to do business in the State of California as surety thereon, conditioned for the faithful performance of the contract, or shall have deposited with the said Secretary a certified check upon some solvent bank for the said amount as a guaranty for such performance. Before entering upon the performance of any work in this Article provided for, the contractor covenanting to do such work shall also file with the Director of Public Works a bond, with some surety company authorized to do business in the State of California, as surety thereon, to be satisfactory in all respects to said Director, in a sum not less than  of the total amount payable by the terms of the contract, conditioned for the payment of all materialmen and employees under the contract. In lieu of such bonds or certified check, any contractor may deliver to said Secretary a bond in the sum of $25,000, with some surety company authorized to do business in the State of California, as surety thereon, conditioned for faithful performance of any and all private contracts authorized to be performed by him in pursuance of the provisions of this Article, and for the payment of all materialmen and employees under such contracts. Such last-mentioned bond must be satisfactory in all respects to said Director and shall be renewed annually. 
SEC. 414.  LIABILITY NOT AFFECTED BY ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACTS-RECORDATION-NOTICE.
	No assignment or transfer of a contract authorized or provided for in this Article, or of any rights thereunder, shall operate to relieve the surety or sureties on any bond executed in connection with such contract, as herein provided for, from the obligations or liabilities assumed in and by such bond, nor change or in any manner or degree qualify such obligations or liabilities. All such assignments or transfers of contracts must be recorded in the County Recorder's office and due notice thereof given to the Director of Public Works. 
SEC. 415.  INVESTIGATION OF SIGNATURES.
	The Director of Public Works may institute such inquiry as he deems proper for the purpose of determining the authenticity of the signatures appearing on a private contract, or the authority of the parties thereto to sign same. 
SEC. 416.  IMPROVEMENT BY INDIVIDUAL OWNER.
	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as prohibiting the Director of Public Works from granting permission to an individual owner or his duly authorized agent to improve a public street in front of his property, if in the judgment of the City Engineer and said Director such improvement be deemed advisable and expedient, and the public interest or convenience requires the same. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commence or proceed with the construction of street improvement works within the City and County of San Francisco, unless a permit therefor shall have been first obtained from the Department of Public Works, unless the Director of Public Works decides that no permit is needed. 
	Before the issuance of such permit the applicant therefor shall be required to pay to the said Department, as a processing fee, the sum of $160 for each permit. 
(Amended by Ord. 401-87, App. 9/26/87)
SEC. 417.  EXISTING CONTRACTS CONFIRMED.
	The provisions of this Article shall not be deemed in any way to affect any of the matters provided for in Article 6 of this Chapter for the improvement of streets by public contract and assessment of the cost thereof against private property. 
	This Article, however, shall not in any manner be held to affect any private contract heretofore in force and effect in pursuance of the provisions of Ordinance No. 7169 (New Series) and ordinance amendatory thereof, which provisions shall be deemed applicable until the completion of every such contract. 
SEC. 422.  UNDEDICATED STREETS-SALE OF LOTS PROHIBITED.
	No person, firm or corporation shall sell or offer for sale any lot or lots facing on a street or streets not heretofore opened and dedicated to public use, unless the name or names of such streets have been previously submitted to the Department of Public Works and such department has approved such name or names. 
SEC. 423.  OBJECTION TO SIMILAR NAMES.
	It shall be the duty of the Department of Public Works to object to the name of any proposed street similar to one already dedicated, unless the new street can be an extension of the latter, and also to object to any name that may be so similar as to lead to confusion. In neither case the person, firm or corporation that submitted the name or names which were objected to shall submit other names not open to the same objection, and shall not sell or offer for sale any lot or lots on such proposed streets until the names thereof have been approved by the Department of Public Works. 
SEC. 424.  PENALTY.
	Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of Sections 422 and 423 of this Article shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment in the County Jail not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. 
ARTICLE 10:
[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 11:
SPUR TRACKS
Sec. 555.Spur TracksConditions For Maintenance Of.Sec. 556.Permit Required.Sec. 557.Type of Rail.Sec. 558.Tracks Must Conform to Grade of Street.Sec. 559.Paving Between TracksType of Pavement.Sec. 560.Repair of Tracks And Pavement. Sec. 561.No Exclusive Rights to be Granted.Sec. 562.Joint Use of Tracks.Sec. 563.Provisions Applicable to Tracks on Public Streets.Sec. 565.Deliveries For Connecting CarriersCharges.Sec. 566.Runways Crossing SidewalksRegulation.Sec. 566.1.Unloading From Car to Vehicle. Sec. 567.Time For Loading and Unloading CarsPenalty.Sec. 568.Cars Not to Block Crosswalks or Driveways.Sec. 568.1.Reflectors on Cars.Sec. 569.Cars Standing on a Grade to be Blocked.Sec. 570.Forfeiture of PermitWhen.Sec. 571.Tracks Located in Sidewalk Area of Street.
SEC. 555.  SPUR TRACKS-CONDITIONS FOR MAINTENANCE OF.
	No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter construct, maintain or use any spur or part of any spur track on any public street within the City and County of San Francisco, except in strict accordance with the terms and conditions specified in this Article. 
SEC. 556.  PERMIT REQUIRED.
	It shall be unlawful to use, construct or maintain any spur track on any public street unless a permit for the same shall have been granted pursuant to Section 114 of the Charter, and any person or persons individually or acting for or representing any firm or corporation who shall construct or maintain such spur track without the authority of such permit shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. 
	All permits for the construction, use and maintenance of a spur track shall be temporary and revocable at the pleasure of the department granting the same. 
	An original and two copies of the application with drawing showing the proposed location, grades, alignment of spur track, the type of pavement to be used and existing obstructions shall be furnished. 
SEC. 557.  TYPE OF RAIL.
	The rail used in construction of all spur tracks constructed on all paved streets subsequent to the passage of this Article shall be T-Rail with inner guard rail as approved by the Department of Public Works or Girder Rail of a standard style. If any spur track now in existence in said City and County shall be reconstructed, in whole or in part, on any paved street, the T-Rail with inner guard rail or standard girder rail as above designated, shall be used in such case. 
SEC. 558.  TRACKS MUST CONFORM TO GRADE OF STREET.
	All spur tracks hereafter constructed shall be laid to conform to the actual surface grade of the roadway, so as to cause the least obstruction to traffic. In case said roadway is above or below the official grade, and should be subsequently paved or repaved on the official grade, all such tracks and their adjacent pavements shall be changed to conform to the official grade by parties or party laying or using the same, and without expense to the City. 
SEC. 559.  PAVING BETWEEN TRACKS-TYPE OF PAVEMENT.
	Every holder of a permit to operate, maintain or use any spur tracks over and along any street or sidewalk in this City and County is hereby required whenever notified by the Department of Public Works, by written notice, to pave the area between the rails and for two feet outside thereof and between such tracks, if there be more than one, as may be located 15 feet or less apart center line to center line for the entire length of the street used by the track or tracks, except where said tracks are in separate ownership, in which case the cost of said paving shall be equally divided. The type of pavement used shall be as specified by the Department of Public Works. In case the roadway of a street should be repaved with another type of pavement than that formerly used, the portion of the roadway occupied by the railroad track or tracks shall be changed on order of the Department of Public Works. 
SEC. 560.  REPAIR OF TRACKS AND PAVEMENT.
	Every person, firm or corporation operating, maintaining or using any spur tracks, shall maintain them and their adjacent pavements between the rails and for two feet each side thereof and between such tracks, if there be more than one, as may be located 15 feet or less apart center line to center line as hereinafter provided, in good repair, flush with the surface of the pavement of existing roadway, so that said tracks will be no obstruction to vehicles, and to the satisfaction of the Department of Public Works, except where said tracks are in separate ownership, in which case the cost of maintenance shall be equally divided. In case said spur tracks or their adjacent pavements become out of repair, the person, firm or corporation, or persons, firms or corporations operating, maintaining or using said tracks, shall repair the same to the satisfaction of the Department of Public Works, within 30 days after service of notice to do so by the Department of Public Works. All permits for laying spur tracks shall contain the condition specified in this Section. 
SEC. 561.  NO EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS TO BE GRANTED.
	No permit for spur track on any public street or property shall be granted in such manner as to permit the owner or holder thereof to acquire any exclusive rights to any portion of said spur track on such public street. 
SEC. 562.  JOINT USE OF TRACKS.
	No permit shall hereafter be granted for spur tracks on any public street in the City and County of San Francisco except upon condition that all persons, firms or corporations owning or using property fronting thereon, or owning or using other tracks connecting therewith, shall have the right to use said tracks upon paying a proportionate share of the cost of the construction, maintenance and repair of said tracks and their adjacent pavements, unless upon other terms mutually agreed upon with the person, firm or corporation to whom the permit is granted, it being understood that cars loaded with perishable products shall have the right-of-way if necessary. 
SEC. 563.  PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO TRACKS ON PUBLIC STREETS.
	The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to all spur tracks constructed, maintained or operated upon public streets. 
SEC. 565.  DELIVERIES FOR CONNECTING CARRIERS-CHARGES.
	The railway operating any spur track on any public street or property hereafter constructed in the City and County shall, upon demand of the person, firm or corporation for the use or benefit of which such spur track is operated, place upon such spur track the freight cars of any railway which has, in this City and County, track connection with the operating railway; such cars so placed to be used for the receipt and delivery of freight in carloads only. And the operating railway shall receive and deliver the cars of the connecting railway over, at and upon such connecting track in the performance of such switching services for such persons, firms or corporations and such railway shall perform such service without undue delay or discrimination. The operating railway shall perform such service for the same charge or rate that it charges for corresponding service for its own cars upon the spur track for like purpose. The provisions of this Section shall apply only to such portions of such spur tracks as are not constructed, maintained or operated upon or across private land, and no permit for a spur track shall hereafter be granted which does not specifically contain the provisions and conditions of this Section. Any provisions of this Section in conflict with state and federal laws shall not apply. 
SEC. 566.  RUNWAYS CROSSING SIDEWALKS-REGULATION.
	No runway or platform or mechanical device shall be extended from any car on a spur track to or across any sidewalk, except during the time such runway or platform or mechanical device is being prepared for use or is actually being used for the loading or unloading of freight from said car or being dismantled. 
SEC. 566.1.  UNLOADING FROM CAR TO VEHICLE.
	Freight shall not be unloaded from any car on a spur track to any truck or other vehicle in the public streets unless authorized by general or special order of the Director of Public Works with approval of San Francisco Police Department. 
SEC. 567.  TIME FOR LOADING AND UNLOADING CARS-PENALTY.
	All cars standing on spur tracks on any public street shall be unloaded and/or loaded within 72 hours after being delivered on said tracks, Sundays and holidays excepted, except in case of unavoidable delay. The failure of any person, firm or corporation to unload and/or load said car within said time shall subject such person, firm or corporation to a fine of $10 which fine shall be paid into the City Treasury, and the permit of such person, firm or corporation to use such tracks shall be suspended until said fine is paid. 
SEC. 568.  CARS NOT TO BLOCK CROSSWALKS OR DRIVEWAYS.
	No car shall be allowed to stand on any spur track for any time whatever so as to obstruct any crosswalk. No driveway shall be blocked except by permission of the owner of the property affected. 
SEC. 568.1.  REFLECTORS ON CARS.
	No freight car shall be allowed to stand on any spur track during the hours of darkness in any part of any public street, either singly or at the end of a number of connected cars, facing any oncoming traffic which may use or approach such street, unless at all such times such car is equipped with one or more red reflectors on the end thereof facing such traffic or suitable illuminating devices are so placed in the vicinity that they will delineate the extent of the obstruction. 
SEC. 569.  CARS STANDING ON A GRADE TO BE BLOCKED.
	All cars while standing on spur tracks constructed on a grade shall have their wheels blocked in such a manner that such cars will not descend the grade. When cars are moved for loading or unloading such precautions shall be taken as may be necessary to keep the movement under control at all times. 
SEC. 570.  FORFEITURE OF PERMIT-WHEN.
	Upon failure on the part of the holder of a spur track permit to comply with any provision of this Article, written notice of such failure shall be given to the permittee by personal delivery or by registered mail to his last known address. Within 10 days after the posting date or personal delivery date of this notice, the permittee may request and obtain a hearing before the Director of Public Works regarding the compliance failure. If, at the hearing, it is found that failure to comply with the provisions of this Article by the permittee is a fact, or, if no hearing has been requested within the time limit set herein, the permit shall be forfeited forthwith, and the spur tracks shall be removed and pavement restored by the permittee within 90 days after forfeiture. 
SEC. 571.  TRACKS LOCATED IN SIDEWALK AREA OF STREET.
	Whenever spur tracks are to be located in the sidewalk area of any street or in any sidewalk area which is to be abolished for the purpose of so locating said spur tracks, the application for the spur track permit shall contain the following agreement: 
"I, ____________ hereby warrant, promise, covenant, and agree to assume the defense of, indemnify, save and keep harmless the City and County of San Francisco, the Director of Public Works and their officers and employees, from any and all claims, losses, damages, injuries and liabilities of every kind, nature and description, regardless of responsibility for negligence, whether involving injury to person or property, both real and personal, and whether directly or indirectly arising from the creation, construction, location, condition and maintenance of the spur tracks to be authorized under the permit herein applied for or by virtue of any abolition of sidewalk area herein contemplated, and whether for impairment of the rights of abutting owners of ingress, egress, and accessibility, or otherwise." 
ARTICLE 12:
[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 13:
ENGINEERING INSPECTION
Sec. 635.Duty of Director to Cause Engineering Inspection.Sec. 636.Improvement Without Inspection Prohibited.Sec. 637.Request For InspectionCost.Sec. 638.Duty of Director to Estimate Cost.Sec. 639.Deposit of Monthly Cost In Advance.Sec. 640.Money Deposited to Defray Specific Inspection.Sec. 641.Inspection to be Furnished When Cost Deposited.Sec. 642.Additional Deposit May Be Required.Sec. 643.Excess Deposit to be Credited.Sec. 644.Forms and Fiscal Procedure to be Prescribed by Controller.
SEC. 635.  DUTY OF DIRECTOR TO CAUSE ENGINEERING INSPECTION.
	It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to cause engineering inspection to be made of: 
	(a)	All work and improvements performed under the provisions of Article 6 and Article 9 of this Chapter;
	(b)	All garbage disposal pursuant to the provisions of Section 318 of Article 6, Chapter V, of the Municipal Code;
	(c)	All reclamation work within the City and County of San Francisco.
SEC. 636.  IMPROVEMENT WITHOUT INSPECTION PROHIBITED.
	It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make, or cause or permit to be made, any improvement or work as referred to in Section 635 of this Article without first securing engineering inspection service from the Director of Public Works. 
SEC. 637.  REQUEST FOR INSPECTION-COST.
	Whenever any person, firm or corporation desires and intends to do any work to make any improvement as described in Section 635 of this Article, such person, firm or corporation before performing any such contemplated work, shall in writing request the Director of Public Works to make engineering inspection. The cost of such engineering inspection shall constitute a charge against and be paid for monthly in advance by the person, firm or corporation performing said work or making such improvements in the manner hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 638.  DUTY OF DIRECTOR TO ESTIMATE COST.
	Upon such written request being received it shall be the duty of said Director of Public Works to make an estimate of the cost of such engineering inspection, and notify the person making the request the estimated monthly cost thereof. 
SEC. 639.  DEPOSIT OF MONTHLY COST IN ADVANCE.
	Such person, firm or corporation must thereupon, and prior to the commencement or continuation of any work or performance as described in Section 635 of this Article, deposit monthly in advance the amount of money determined upon as the estimated monthly cost of such inspection with the Director of Public Works. 
SEC. 640.  MONEY DEPOSITED TO DEFRAY SPECIFIC INSPECTION.
	All moneys paid to the Director of Public Works under the provisions of this Article shall be deposited with the Treasurer to the credit of the appropriation for "Engineering Inspection," to be used exclusively to defray the cost of the specific engineering inspection for which it was tendered. 
SEC. 641.  INSPECTION TO BE FURNISHED WHEN COST DEPOSITED.
	When said amount of money is deposited, it shall thereupon be the duty of said Director of Public Works to furnish said engineering inspection. 
SEC. 642.  ADDITIONAL DEPOSIT MAY BE REQUIRED.
	Should the monthly cost and expense of such engineering inspection amount to more than said estimate, the person, firm, or corporation concerned shall thereupon be immediately notified and required to make an additional deposit with the Director of Public Works of an amount sufficient to complete the monthly cost of said inspection as estimated by the Director of Public Works, which sum when paid shall be deposited as aforesaid, and no further engineering inspection service shall be performed or furnished until such additional deposit is made with the Director of Public Works. 
SEC. 643.  EXCESS DEPOSIT TO BE CREDITED.
	Should the monthly cost and expense of such engineering inspection be less than the amount deposited then the surplus or excess existing in the amount deposited over the total actual cost of such engineering inspection shall be credited on account of such continued inspection as may be required or when the work has been completed be refunded to the person, firm or corporation by whom such funds were originally deposited. 
SEC. 644.  FORMS AND FISCAL PROCEDURE TO BE PRESCRIBED BY CONTROLLER.
	The Controller shall prescribe the forms and fiscal procedure under the provisions of this Article. 
ARTICLE 14:
UNDERGROUND PIPES, WIRES AND CONDUITS
Sec. 670.Privilege Granted For Laying Pipes.Sec. 671.Privileges Subject to All Rules of Department.Sec. 674.Street LightingBids Required.Sec. 675.Privilege Limited to Underground Work.Sec. 676.No Value Attached to Privilege.Sec. 677.Privilege Not Transferable.Sec. 678.Right of Amendment or RepealProtection of Rights.Sec. 679.Consent Required of Privilege Holders.Sec. 680.Failure to Comply With Terms-Forfeiture.
SEC. 670.  PRIVILEGE GRANTED FOR LAYING PIPES.
	The privilege is hereby granted to any person, firm or corporation, organized under the laws of the State of California, to lay down, maintain and operate in the public streets and thoroughfares of the City and County of San Francisco, pipes, wires and conduits, and connections therewith, so far as may be necessary for introducing into and supplying said city and its inhabitants with gas and electricity for lighting, heating and power purposes, upon the terms and conditions set forth in Section 671 to 680, inclusive, of this Article. 
SEC. 671.  PRIVILEGES SUBJECT TO ALL RULES OF DEPARTMENT.
	The privileges hereby granted are subject to the provisions of all ordinances of the Board of Supervisors of said City and County and all regulations of the Department of Public Works relating to the opening of streets, and the grantees hereunder in accepting said privileges expressly consent to regulation by such ordinances and rules now in effect or which may hereafter be adopted. 
SEC. 674.  STREET LIGHTING-BIDS REQUIRED.
	Whenever the Board of Supervisors shall advertise for bids for street lighting or for other service to the municipal government within the purview of this Article, all persons, firms or corporations exercising privileges granted hereunder within 300 feet of the location for which such service is sought shall submit bids for furnishing such service. 
SEC. 675.  PRIVILEGE LIMITED TO UNDERGROUND WORK.
	The privileges herein conferred are limited to the laying of underground pipes, wires, conduits and service connections, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as conferring upon the grantee the right to erect poles or wires or in any way maintain overhead construction. All pipes or conduits shall be laid in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Department of Public Works now in effect or which may hereafter be adopted. 
SEC. 676.  NO VALUE ATTACHED TO PRIVILEGE.
	In the event that the City and County of San Francisco shall elect at any time to take over and operate as a public utility the business of supplying gas or electricity for heating, lighting, power and other purposes to its inhabitants, and should acquire by condemnation proceedings, or otherwise, the plant and distributing system of any grantee hereunder, no value whatever shall be attached, in said proceedings, to the rights and privileges conferred by this Article, nor shall any value be attached thereto at any time for rate fixing purposes. 
SEC. 677.  PRIVILEGE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
	The rights and privileges granted by this Article shall not be transferred except by and with the consent of the Board of Supervisors. 
SEC. 678.  RIGHT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL-PROTECTION OF RIGHTS.
	The Board of Supervisors expressly reserves the right to amend or repeal this Article, provided that rights which may have vested hereunder prior to said repeal or amendment through the actual installation of pipes, wires and conduits shall not be affected by such repeal or amendment. Provided, further, however, that the Board of Supervisors may, by general ordinance, compel the removal of all pipes and conduits used for any of the purposes herein set forth, from the roadways of the streets, and their replacement beneath sidewalk areas. 
SEC. 679.  CONSENT REQUIRED OF PRIVILEGE HOLDERS.
	Any person, firm or corporation electing to exercise the privileges herein granted, shall, prior to said exercise, file with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors a written notification that they have accepted the terms of this Article and elect to proceed hereunder. 
SEC. 680.  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TERMS-FORFEITURE.
	If any person, firm or corporation exercising the privilege or privileges granted by this Article shall fail to fully and faithfully carry out all and any terms or conditions herein imposed upon the exercise of such grant, all such privileges shall thereupon, as to such person, firm or corporation, be terminated and forfeited and the Board of Supervisors may, by resolution, direct the removal of any or all works of such person, firm or corporation installed under authority of this Article. 
ARTICLE 15:
MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 703.Concrete Sidewalks.Sec. 703.1.Brick, Quarry-Tile or Exposed Concrete Aggregate Sidewalk Surfaces.Sec. 703.2.Replacement, Repair and Maintenance of Existing Sidewalk Surfaces With Same Kind of Materials, Etc.Sec. 704.Asphalt Sidewalks.Sec. 705.Wooden Sidewalks or Stairways.Sec. 706.Owners of Frontage Responsible For Repair  Liability for Unsafe Conditions.Sec. 706.1.Notice to Owner.Sec. 706.2.Contents of Notice.Sec. 706.3.Director of Public Works to Repair if Owner Fails To Do So.Sec. 706.4.Notice of Cost and Claim of Lien.Sec. 706.5.Recording of Lien.Sec. 706.6.Collection by Bureau of Delinquent Revenue.Sec. 706.7.Release of Lien.Sec. 706.8.Revolving Fund.Sec. 706.9Alternate Method of Enforcement and Collection of Lien.Sec. 707.Award of Contract For Construction, Repair and Replacement of Sidewalks, Etc.Sec. 708.Sidewalk Improvement  Permit Required.Sec. 708.1.Sidewalk Improvement Unlawful Without Permit.Sec. 708.2.Permit For Construction, Repair, or Replacement of Sidewalks  Inspection Fee.Sec. 709.Emergency Orders; Accepted and Unaccepted Public Right-of-Way.Sec. 710.Excavations  Replacement of Sockets.Sec. 715.Construction Requirements  Automobile Runways.Sec. 716.Permit Required  Fee.Sec. 717.Permit Only to Owner  Restoration.Sec. 718.Existing Runways.Sec. 719.Runway Reconstruction.Sec. 720.Side Sewer, Side Sewer Trap and House Sewer Alteration.Sec. 723.Obstruction of Streets Prohibited.Sec. 723.1.Sidewalk Barriers.Sec. 723.2.Minor Sidewalk Encroachments.Sec. 723.3.Unpermitted Subsidewalk Encroachment into the Public Right-of-Way along the Central Subway Corridor.Sec. 724.Temporary Occupancy of Street  Permits Required.Sec. 724.1.Temporary Occupancy of Street  Fees to be Paid.Sec. 724.2.Temporary Occupancy of Street  Permittee to Repair Defects.Sec. 724.3.Placards and Signs.Sec. 724.4.Construction and Demolition Sites; Departmental Orders and Regulations.Sec. 724.5.Exceeding Permissible Use or Occupation Without Permission  Penalty Fee and Criminal Penalty.Sec. 724.6.Unpaid Fees and Failure to Restore Pavement; Wilful Noncompliance.Sec. 724.7.Temporary Occupancy of Street  Additional Permit Required.Sec. 724.8.Assessment Costs for Additional Street Space.Sec. 724.9.Temporary Occupancy of Street  Permittee to Defend and Indemnify City and County.Sec. 725.Debris Box Defined.Sec. 725.1.Authorized Uses.Sec. 725.2.Registration or Permit Required for Placement.Sec. 725.3.Registration or Permit Conditions and Inspection Fees.Sec. 725.4.Nonliability of San Francisco: Save Harmless Clause.Sec. 725.5.Placement of Boxes.Sec. 725.6.Reflectors and Striping.Sec. 725.7.Identification of Owner.Sec. 725.8.Covers Required for Transporting.Sec. 725.9.Penalties.Sec. 725.10.Removal of Debris Boxes.Sec. 725.11.Rules and Regulations.Sec. 725.12.Severability.Sec. 726.Mobile Storage Containers on Public Right-of-Way  Permits Required.Sec. 726.1.Siting of The Mobile Storage Container.Sec. 726.2.Individual Location Permit Signs to Be Posted on Containers.Sec. 726.3.Annual Permittee Deposit.Sec. 726.5.Insurance Requirements for Annual Permit Holder.Sec. 726.6.Additional Requirements.Sec. 726.7.Orders and Regulations.Sec. 726.8.Severability.Sec. 727.Drifting or Blowing of Sand or Dirt Declared to be a Public Nuisance.Sec. 735.Blighted Vacant Lots as Constituting Public Nuisance.Sec. 759.Transportation of Sand Over Public Streets Prohibited.Sec. 760.Permit Required  Revocation.Sec. 771.Draining, Etc., Oil, Greases, Etc., On Streets.Sec. 776.Blasting  Permit Required.Sec. 777.Blasting  Application For Permit.Sec. 778.Blasting  Fee to be Paid; Insurance to be Carried.Sec. 779.Blasting  Use of Explosives.Sec. 780.Blasting  Money Deposited to Defray Inspection Costs.Sec. 783.Property Below Grade  Barriers Required.Sec. 784.Lights and Barriers in Streets When Required.Sec. 786.Street Encroachment Permit.Sec. 786.1.Content of Applications.Sec. 786.2.Reports.Sec. 786.3.Schedule of Hearings.Sec. 786.4.Notice of Hearing.Sec. 786.5.Conduct of Hearings.Sec. 786.6.Recommendation.Sec. 786.7.Public Right-of-Way Occupancy Assessment Fee for Street Encroachments.Sec. 787.Street Vacations.Sec. 788.Fees.Sec. 789.Title.Sec. 789.1.Purpose and Intent.Sec. 789.2.Commemorative Street Plaque Placement Procedures.Sec. 789.3.Schedule, Notice and Conduct of Hearing.Sec. 789.4.Designation by Board of Supervisors.Sec. 789.5.Siting and Design Guidelines.Sec. 789.6.Official and Commemorative Maps.Sec. 789.7.Fees.Sec. 790.Slip Resistant Manhole, Vault, and Sub-Sidewalk Basement Covers, Grilles, Grates, or Other Lids on the Public Sidewalk.Sec. 791.Public Improvements Gift Acceptance and Public Dedication.
SEC. 701.  REPEALED.
(Added by Ord. 312-88, App. 7/8/88; Repealed by Ord. 287-08, File No. 081340, App. 12/5/2008)
SEC. 703.  CONCRETE SIDEWALKS.
	Except where special permits are issued as specified in Section 703.1, 704, and 705, sidewalk supported on the ground in any public street or other public way as defined in Section 185 of this Code, shall be of concrete. The concrete sidewalk shall be at least 3" inches thick with a non-skid cement mortar finishing coat at least  inch thick, except that the finishing coat on terrazzo sidewalks shall be at least  of one inch thick and shall contain an abrasive aggregate mixed into the finish coat for its entire thickness in the proportion by weight of two parts of abrasive aggregate to three parts of other aggregate. All sidewalks shall be placed in accordance with specifications and rules which the Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to prepare in conformity herewith and as required for public convenience and safety, such specifications and rules to apply to the quality and proportions of the required materials, the method of construction, and the type of finish. The finished surface of the sidewalk shall rise 1/5 inch per foot from curb grade to the property line unless a deviation therefrom is approved by order of the Director of Public Works. 
	Sidewalk topping and wearing surface, when poured monolithic with the slab, may be included as a structural part of the slab, but the overall thickness shall not be less than 3" inches. 
	Sidewalks when unsupported by ground or constructed over excavated areas shall be constructed in accordance with Section 4301 of Article 43 of the Building Code of the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Amended by Ord. 137-66, App. 6/14/66)
SEC. 703.1.  BRICK, QUARRY-TILE OR EXPOSED CONCRETE AGGREGATE SIDEWALK SURFACES.
	The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant revocable permits to owners of fronting property or their duly authorized agents to construct sidewalk surfaces of brick, quarry-tile, exposed concrete aggregate, or other commonly-used sidewalk paving material as approved by the Department of Public Works. 
	All sidewalks shall be placed in accordance with specifications and rules which the Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to prepare in conformity herewith and as required for public convenience and safety, such specifications and rules to apply to the quality and proportions of the required materials, the method of construction, and the type of finish. The finished surface of the sidewalk shall rise 1/5 inch per foot from curb grade to the property line unless a deviation therefrom is approved by order of this special permit. 
	The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to order the owner of the fronting property to remove the brick, quarry-tile, or exposed concrete aggregate sidewalk surfaces and to construct a concrete sidewalk in accordance with the provisions of Section 703 hereof, when in the judgment of said Director public interest and convenience require such removal and reconstruction. 
	The order shall specify the time within which the work is to be completed, and also the time within which the owner must declare, in writing to the Director, his intention to do the work. 
	The Director, upon receiving written notice of the intention to comply by the owner, or his authorized agent, may if requested by the owner, grant a reasonable extension of the time specified in the order for the completion of the work. 
(Added by Ord. 137-66, App. 6/14/66; Ord. 310-10, File No. 101194, App. 12/16/2010)
SEC. 703.2.  REPLACEMENT, REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING SIDEWALK SURFACES WITH SAME KIND OF MATERIALS, ETC.
	Any person, firm or corporation who removes or repairs, or causes or permits to be removed or repaired any existing sidewalk surface, or any portion thereof, for any purpose whatever, shall replace or repair or cause to be replaced or repaired the sidewalk surface so removed or repaired, with the same kind of materials, design and texture, and with equivalent workmanship, to match the existing sidewalk surface, unless an exception therefrom is ordered or approved by the Director of Public Works. 
(Amended by Ord. 319-73, App. 8/10/73)
SEC. 704.  ASPHALT SIDEWALKS.
	Temporary asphaltic concrete sidewalks may be constructed in industrial areas or fronting unimproved property; provided, however, that no such sidewalks shall be constructed prior to permission having been granted by the Director of Public Works. The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant such permits to owners of fronting property or their duly authorized agents when in his judgment public interest and convenience require the construction of an asphaltic concrete sidewalk. Asphaltic concrete sidewalks shall be at least five inches in thickness and shall consist of a crushed rock base at least three inches in thickness, and an asphaltic concrete wearing surface at least two inches in thickness. The materials used and the method of construction shall be in accordance with specifications which the Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to prepare in conformity herewith, and as required for public convenience and safety, such specifications and rules to apply to the quality and proportions of the required materials, and the method of application. The finished surface of the sidewalk shall have a uniform, nonskid texture and shall rise 1/5 inch per foot from curb grade to property line. 
	The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to order the owner of the fronting property to remove a temporary asphaltic concrete sidewalk and to construct a cement concrete sidewalk in accordance with the provisions of Section 703 hereof, when in the judgment of said Director public interest and convenience require such removal and reconstruction. 
	The order shall specify the time within which the work is to be completed, and also the time within which the owner must declare, in writing to the Director, his intention to do the work. 
	The Director, upon receiving written notice of the intention to comply by the owner, or his authorized agent, may if requested by the owner, grant a reasonable extension of the time specified in the order for the completion of the work. 
SEC. 705.  WOODEN SIDEWALKS OR STAIRWAYS.
	Temporary wooden sidewalks or stairways in sidewalk areas may be constructed in hilly areas or unimproved streets; provided, however, that no such wooden sidewalks shall be constructed prior to permission having been granted by the Director of Public Works. The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to grant such permits to owners of fronting property or their duly authorized agents when in his judgment public interest and convenience require the construction of a wooden sidewalk or stairway. Every person, firm or corporation owning any real property, fronting on any street where wooden sidewalks now are, or hereafter may be laid, must drive down, or cause to be driven down, and at all times keep, or cause to be kept driven down, even with the upper surface of such sidewalks, in front of such real property, all nails and spikes used in such wooden sidewalks. 
	The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to order the owner of the fronting property to remove the temporary sidewalk or stairway and to construct a concrete sidewalk in accordance with the provisions of Section 703 hereof, when in the judgment of said Director, public interest and convenience require such removal and construction. 
	The order shall specify the time within which the work is to be completed, and also the time within which the owner must declare, in writing to the Director, his intention to do the work. 
	The Director, upon receiving written notice of the intention to comply by the owner, or his authorized agent, may if requested by the owner, grant a reasonable extension of the time specified in the order for the completion of the work. 
SEC. 706.  OWNERS OF FRONTAGE RESPONSIBLE FOR REPAIR  LIABILITY FOR UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
	(a)	It shall be the duty of the owners of lots or portions of lots immediately adjacent to any portion of a public street, avenue, alley, lane, court or place to maintain the sidewalks and sidewalk area, including any parking strip, parkway, automobile runway and curb, fronting or adjacent to their property in good repair and condition. This duty shall include removal of any unpermitted structure, including but not limited to unpermitted public pay telephones installed in the sidewalk adjacent to the property. Any person who suffers injury or property damage as a legal result of the failure of the owner to so maintain the sidewalks and sidewalk areas shall have a cause of action for such injury or property damage against such property owner. The City and County of San Francisco shall have a cause of action for indemnity against such property owner for any damages it may be required to pay as satisfaction of any judgment or settlement of any claim that results from injury to persons or property as a legal result of the failure of the owner to maintain the sidewalks and sidewalk areas in accordance with this Section. Failure of the owner to maintain the sidewalks and sidewalk areas as set forth in this Section also shall constitute a public nuisance. 
	(b)	Sidewalk Revitalization Program. A property owner may elect to participate in the City's sidewalk revitalization program for fiscal year 2006-07 or any year thereafter during which the program is renewed by providing written authorization to the Department to undertake repairs to the sidewalk fronting the subject property. If the property owner elects to participate in this program, the Department shall waive all permit and inspection fees related to the sidewalk repair. 
(Amended by Ord. 398-91, App. 11/11/91; Ord. 287-92, App. 9/16/92; Ord. 12-07, File No. 061606, App. 2/2/2007)
SEC. 706.1.  NOTICE TO OWNER.
	When any portion of a sidewalk is not in good repair and condition and the Director of Public Works has knowledge thereof, it shall be his duty to notify the owner of the property immediately adjacent thereto, to repair the same. Such notice shall be written and may be given by delivery personally or by mailing of notice, either by letter or postal card, postage prepaid, to his last known address, as the same appears on the last assessment rolls of the City and County of San Francisco. Immediately after mailing any such notice, the Director of Public Works shall cause a copy thereof, printed on a card of not less than eight inches by ten inches in size, to be posted in a conspicuous place on said property. 
SEC. 706.2.  CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
	Such notice shall direct the owner to repair such sidewalk, shall specify what work is required to be done, how the same is to be done, and what materials shall be used in such repair, and shall further specify that, if such repair is not commenced within 30 days after notice is given as aforesaid and prosecuted to completion diligently and without interruption, the Director of Public Works shall cause such repair to be made and the cost of the same shall be a lien on such property. 
(Amended by Ord. 73-70, App. 3/19/70)
SEC. 706.3.  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS TO REPAIR IF OWNER FAILS TO DO SO.
	If said repair is not commenced and prosecuted to completion with due diligence, as required by said notice, the Director of Public Works shall repair said sidewalk. The cost of such repair shall be an obligation to the City and County owing by the owner of the adjacent property, and the City and County shall have a lien of the adjacent property in all respects as though notice had been given. Both such obligation and lien shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 706.4, 706.5, 706.6, 706.7 and 706.8 of this Article. 
(Amended by Ord. 342-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 706.4.  NOTICE OF COST AND CLAIM OF LIEN.
	(a)	Upon the completion of such repair, the Director of Public Works shall ascertain the cost thereof, apportioning the same, if the area so repaired is next adjacent to more than one lot of land. The owner of such lot of land shall thereupon be obligated to the City and County of San Francisco in the amount of such cost of repair and the City and County shall thereupon have a lien for such cost of repair upon any such lot of land until payment thereof which lien shall also include the cost of verification and filing thereof. On ascertaining the cost of repair as aforesaid the Director of Public Works shall cause notice thereof to be mailed in the manner herein provided for mailing notice to repair, which notice shall demand payment thereof to the Director of Public Works, shall give notice of claim of such lien and of the recording of the same, in the event such amount is not paid, as hereinafter set forth. 
	(b)	Said notice also shall state that the property owner(s) identified as the responsible party(ies) may request an administrative review of the Director's determination as to the responsible property owner(s) and the allocation of cost for remediation. This request must be in writing and filed within 10 calendar days of the date of the Director's notice. If no request for administrative review is filed, the Director's determination shall be final. 
	(c)	If administrative review is requested, the Director shall appoint a hearing officer and schedule a hearing within 10 calendar days of the filing of the request for administrative review. The Director shall notify the party(ies) to the review hearing of the time and date of said hearing. Recording of the lien against the affected owner's property pursuant to Section 706.5 shall be held in abeyance until the Director has acted upon the hearing officer's decision. 
	(d)	The administrative review hearing is a public hearing and shall be tape recorded. Any party to the hearing may cause, at his or her own expense, the hearing to be recorded by a certified court reporter. During the hearing, evidence and testimony may be presented to the hearing officer. Parties to the hearing may be represented by counsel and have the right to cross-examine witnesses. All testimony shall be given under oath. Written decisions and findings shall be rendered by the hearing officer within 10 calendar days of the hearing. Copies of the findings and decisions shall be served upon the parties to the hearing by certified mail. A notice that a copy of the findings and decisions is available for inspection between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday shall be posted at the offices of the Department of Public Works. 
	(e)	The decision of the hearing officer shall be a recommendation to the Director and the Director, within five days of receipt of such decision, shall adopt, modify, or deny such decision. The Director's determination on the hearing officer's decision is final. Such determination shall be served upon the parties to the hearing and posted in the same manner as the hearing officer's decision as set forth in Subsection (d). 
(Amended by Ord. 342-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 706.5.  RECORDING OF LIEN.
	If the cost of repair so specified as to sidewalk area next adjacent to any lot is not paid to the Director of Public Works within 90 days after the mailing of notice thereof, the Director shall file in the office of the Recorder of the City and County a verified claim containing a particular description of the property subject to such lien, the place and general nature of sidewalk repair for which lien is claimed, the dates of mailing or delivery of notice to repair and of cost of repair, the name of the owner of the property as aforesaid and the amount of the lien claimed, which shall include the cost of verification and filing thereof. 
SEC. 706.6.  COLLECTION BY BUREAU OF DELINQUENT REVENUE.
	The Director of Public Works shall also transmit to the Bureau of Delinquent Revenue, on the expiration of such 90-day period, a statement of each such unpaid cost of repair, together with the cost of verification and filing of claim therefor. The bureau shall endeavor diligently to collect the same on behalf of the City and County by foreclosure of the lien therefor or otherwise. Any and all amounts paid or collected shall replenish the revolving fund hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 706.7.  RELEASE OF LIEN.
	On payment of any such claim of lien, the Director of Public Works shall give a release thereof on demand and payment of the verification thereof. 
SEC. 706.8.  REVOLVING FUND.
	A fund shall be provided to cover initially the cost of making sidewalk repairs as provided in Section 706.3 hereof, making repairs in unaccepted public right-of-way as provided in Article 9, Section 400, and of verification and recording of liens therefor, said fund to be a revolving fund and replenished by appropriation and by all moneys paid or collected for sidewalk repairs and repairs in unaccepted public right-of-way and liens therefor as herein provided. 
(Amended by Ord. 342-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 706.9.  ALTERNATE METHOD OF ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION OF LIEN.
	As an alternative to the lien procedure described in Sections 706.4 through 706.8 et seq. of this Article, the Director of Public Works may initiate special assessment lien proceedings in accordance with Administrative Code Chapter 80, Section 80.8(d), whereby the City's expense of repairing, constructing or replacing a sidewalk, driveway, curb or gutter, as confirmed by the Board of Supervisors, shall constitute a special assessment against the parcel or parcels of land fronting such sidewalk, driveway, curb or gutter.
(Added by Ord. 338-73, App. 8/23/73; amended by Ord. 12-07, File No. 061606, App. 2/2/2007; Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
Editor's Note:
	Formerly Sec. 707.1; amended and renumbered by Ord. 77-11, Eff. 6/11/2011.
SEC. 707.  AWARD OF CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS, ETC.
	The Director of Public Works is authorized to invite annual bids in the manner provided in the Administrative Code, and to award a contract effective the first day of July of each year on a unit cost basis for the construction, repair and replacement of sidewalks, driveways, curbs, and gutters where the obligation to perform such construction, repair or replacement is that of the property owner. In addition to insuring the City and County, its officers and employees in their capacities as such as required by the Standard Specifications of the Bureau of Engineering, the contractor shall also name as additional insured the owners of property who are jointly responsible for sidewalk repair, but such insurance shall apply only as respects operations performed by the contractor in connection with this Section. Such owner may request the Director of Public Works to issue a work order to the contractor to do the work for the account of the owner. Such contract shall provide that the contractor shall, on receipt of a work order from the Director of Public Works, repair, construct or replace the sidewalk, curb, or gutter for the account of said owner at the unit prices bid, and shall bill the owner for the cost thereof. Should the owner fail to pay the contractor the amount of said bill within 30 days, the contractor shall give written notice of said failure to the Director of Public Works who, upon determining that the work has been satisfactorily performed, shall cause payment to be made to the contractor from a revolving fund, which shall consist of such monies as may be appropriated for these purposes, and cause a lien to be placed upon the owner's property in the amount of said payment as provided in Sections 706.4, 706.5, 706.6, and 706.7 of this Article, and the amount of said payment shall constitute a lien against said property which shall be enforced, collected, and released as provided in said Sections. The Director of Public Works shall make quarterly reports to the Board of Supervisors showing a general accounting of the aforementioned revolving fund. The necessary funds shall be appropriated annually for the preparation of contracts, taking of bids and entering into contracts. Each such contract shall provide that the Director of Public Works shall have the power to prescribe the procedures to be followed and specify the forms to be used for the reports to be rendered in the administration of the work to be performed thereunder. Each such contract shall provide that the contractor shall deposit with the Director of Public Works a sum sufficient to defray costs of inspections by City inspectors on each job for which a work order is issued, calculated as follows: a minimum of $10 for the first 100 square feet, or fraction thereof, of sidewalk, driveway, curb or gutter construction, repair or replacement, and $5 for each additional 100 square feet or fraction thereof. 
(Added by Ord. 391-81, App. 7/3/81)
SEC. 707.1.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 338-73, App. 8/23/73; amended by Ord. 12-07, File No. 061606, App. 2/2/2007; amended and renumbered as Sec. 706.9 by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 708.  SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT  PERMIT REQUIRED.
	Before constructing, repairing, or replacing the sidewalk in front of a lot or lots adjacent to a public street, avenue, alley, lane, court, or place, the owner of said lot or lots shall obtain a permit therefor from the Department of Public Works as provided in Section 708.1, except for that work covered by Section 707 of this Code, or unless the Director of Public Works decides that no permit is needed. 
(Added by Ord. 38-66, App. 2/24/66)
SEC. 708.1.  SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT UNLAWFUL WITHOUT PERMIT.
	It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct, repair, or replace any sidewalk within the City and County of San Francisco, without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Department of Public Works unless the Director of Public Works decides that no permit is needed, or the work is covered by Section 707 of this Code. 
(Added by Ord. 38-66, App. 2/24/66)
SEC. 708.2.  PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, OR REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS  INSPECTION FEE.
	Every applicant for such a permit shall pay the said Department, as an inspection fee, a sum of $15 for every 100 square feet or fraction thereof, of sidewalk construction, repair or replacement. No fees shall be required for a permit to repair or replace 10 square feet or less of sidewalk. 
(Amended by Ord. 391-81, App. 7/3/81; Ord. 401-87, App. 9/26/87; Ord. 255-92, App. 8/7/92)
SEC. 709.  EMERGENCY ORDERS; ACCEPTED AND UNACCEPTED PUBLIC RIGHT-OF- WAY.
	(a)	If, in the judgment of the Director, the condition of an accepted or unaccepted public right-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works constitutes a public emergency or other imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare that requires immediate action, the Director, by written, telephonic or facsimile communication, may order the responsible property owner(s) to remedy the condition in such a manner as the Director deems expedient and appropriate subject to the limitations set forth in this Article or Article 9. 
	(b)	If the responsible property owner(s) notified pursuant to Subsection (a) is inaccessible or fails, neglects, or refuses to diligently prosecute to completion the remedial work in the manner and time period specified by the Director, then the Director may undertake all necessary actions to remedy the condition. All costs expended by the Director shall be an obligation of the responsible property owner(s) owing to the City and County of San Francisco. Such costs shall include, but are not limited to, those costs associated with the administration, construction, consultants, equipment, inspection, notification, remediation, repair, restoration, or any other actual costs incurred by the Director or other agencies, boards, commissions, or departments of the City and County of San Francisco that were made necessary by reason of the Director's remediation. 
	(c)	In order to enforce an obligation imposed pursuant to Subsection (b), the Director is authorized to institute the lien procedures that are set forth in Sections 706.4 through 707.1. 
	(d)	In the event of an emergency, the Director shall cooperate to the extent practicable with other City and County agencies, boards, commissions, or departments with jurisdiction over affected fixtures, improvements, property, or structures across, adjacent to, along, beneath, in, on, over, under, upon, or within the public right-of-way. The Director may issue an emergency order in conjunction with any other official of the City and County of San Francisco who is authorized to issue emergency orders. 
	(e)	When, under emergency circumstances, neither the Department of Public Works nor Department of Building Inspection can ascertain which department has jurisdiction over the affected fixtures, improvements, property, or structures across, adjacent to, along, beneath, in, on, over, under, upon, or within the public right-of- way, the Director, the Director of the Department of Building Inspection, or both may issue emergency orders to remedy any emergency condition. Notice of the emergency order shall be pursuant to Subsection (a) or according to procedures set forth in the San Francisco Building Code. If the City and County of San Francisco abates the emergency condition, once the Department of Public Works and Building Inspection have determined which department has jurisdiction over the affected fixtures, improvements, property, or structures across, adjacent to, along, beneath, in, on, over, under, upon, or within the public right-of-way, the procedures for collection of charges and enforcement shall be according to the Municipal Code sections applicable to whichever department assumed the lead role in abating the emergency condition. 
(Added by Ord. 342-98, App. 11/13/98)
SEC. 710.  EXCAVATIONS  REPLACEMENT OF SOCKETS.
	The Department of Public Works is hereby directed to cause an inspection to be made of all cases where excavations are made in the public streets or other work done thereon, and to see that all sockets used for posts or poles in connection with parades or street displays have been properly replaced after removal in the making of such excavations or doing such work. In case such sockets have not been replaced to the satisfaction of said Department of Public Works, said Department shall cause such sockets to be put in, and any cost thereof shall be deducted from any deposit made to cover damage to such street by reason of such excavation or street work. 
SEC. 715.  CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS  AUTOMOBILE RUNWAYS.
	That certain plan for the construction of automobile runways extending from the roadways of the improved public streets in the City and County of San Francisco to and upon a portion of the sidewalk area adjacent to the curb line of the roadway of any such streets prepared by the Bureau of Engineering of the Department of Public Works and on file under File No. 14733 in the office of the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors and entitled and designated as "Plan for Construction of Automobile Runway, File L-6964.1" is hereby approved and adopted as the plan in conformity with which any automobile runway extending from the roadway of an improved public street in said City and County to and upon a portion of a sidewalk area adjacent to the curb line of the roadway of such street is required hereafter to be constructed and maintained; provided, however, that when special conditions exist and this plan is not the most feasible the Director of Public Works is authorized to allow deviations, and any such automobile runway hereafter constructed and maintained in any manner not strictly conforming to the design and measurements indicated on such approved and adopted plan, unless modified as herein provided by the Director of Public Works, shall be unlawful. 
SEC. 716.  PERMIT REQUIRED  FEE.
	(a)	It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commence or proceed with the construction of any such automobile runway within the City and County of San Francisco, unless a permit therefor shall have been first obtained from the Department of Public Works, unless the Director of Public Works decides that no permit is needed. 
		Before the issuance of such permit the applicant therefor shall be required to pay to said Department, as an inspection fee, the sum of $60 per driveway. 
	(b)	The public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee for an automobile runway (driveway), whether permitted as specified in Sections 715-719, or unpermitted, shall be an annual fee of $3.00 per square foot of occupancy of the sidewalk or other public right-of-way space that was modified or is proposed for modification to create the automobile runway(s) on the subject property. For purposes of calculating the assessment fee, the Department shall charge no less than $100.00 per year even though the calculated square footage charge for the runway(s) may result in a smaller assessment fee. If the fee for a residential parking permit were assigned to each runway on the subject property and such fee is greater than the public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee, then the Department shall charge an amount equivalent to a residential parking permit for each runway on the subject property. If a runway bi-sects a property line, than the fee shall be equally allocated to each owner. Runways that are reconstructed, but do not increase in size shall be exempt from the assessment fee. If a property is condominium, then the fee shall be charged to the homeowners' association or equally allocated to each owner of a condominium unit. Funds collected through this program shall be used for a variety of street improvements within the Department's jurisdiction including but not limited to Americans with Disabilities Act improvements such as curb ramps. 
(Amended by Ord. 391-81, App. 7/3/81; Ord. 401-87, App. 9/25/87; Ord. 293-08, File No. 081086)
SEC. 717.  PERMIT ONLY TO OWNER  RESTORATION.
	The permit referred to in Section 716 of this Article, and required to be first obtained, shall be granted only to the owner of the real property in front of which any such automobile runway as provided for in this Article is to be constructed and maintained, upon the application of such owner or the authorized agent thereof, and such owner, or the successor of such owner in or the ownership of such property, shall be obligated, in case such automobile runway be discontinued in the use thereof, or abandoned as to such use, to restore to its former or original condition the portion of the street altered or changed in consequence of the construction of such automobile runway. 
SEC. 718.  EXISTING RUNWAYS.
	Such automobile runways from the roadways of improved public streets in the City and County of San Francisco to and upon portions of the sidewalk areas adjacent to the curb lines of the roadways of such streets, as have heretofore been constructed under sanction and to the satisfaction of the Department of Public Works and are now being maintained as so constructed, and such other automobile runways as have already been constructed and which, as to method of construction, are within the restrictions denoted on the approved and adopted plan referred to in Section 715 of this Article, are hereby permitted to be so maintained, subject however to the obligation imposed by the provisions of Section 717 of this Article. 
SEC. 719.  RUNWAY RECONSTRUCTION.
	Whenever street work is performed by the City on accepted streets, and such work alters the street surface elevation fronting on an existing runway which has been constructed and is being maintained in accordance with the provisions of this Article, such portion of said existing runway which requires reconstruction to conform to the altered street surface elevation shall be included in the work and the cost thereof shall be borne by the City, provided that no runway work shall extend further than four feet from the curb line. 
SEC. 720.  SIDE SEWER, SIDE SEWER TRAP AND HOUSE SEWER ALTERATION.
	Whenever street work is performed by the City on accepted streets and such street work necessitates the alteration, adjustment, relocation, and/or reconstruction of any existing side sewer, side sewer trap, and/or house sewer outside the building line which has been constructed and is being maintained in accordance with the provisions of the San Francisco Municipal Code, Part II, Chapter VII (Plumbing and Gas Appliance Code), Article 1, such alteration, adjustment, relocation and/or reconstruction shall be included in the work and the cost thereof shall be borne by the City. 
(Added by Ord. 205-65, App. 7/29/65)
SEC. 723.  OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS PROHIBITED.
	It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, without permission from the Department of Public Works, to pile, cap or otherwise obstruct any street, lane, alley, place or court, or any portion thereof, whether the same be graded or not. 
SEC. 723.1.  SIDEWALK BARRIERS.
	The Department of Public Works may grant permission, revocable at the will of the Director of Public Works, to owners of property abutting any court, alley or narrow street to install and maintain barriers of an approved design, spacing and location in the sidewalk fronting their property where necessary to control illegal vehicular parking or driving in sidewalk areas. 
	The owner of the abutting property, or his authorized agent applying for a permit to install and maintain sidewalk barriers shall agree to hold harmless the City and County of San Francisco, its officers, agents, and employees, from any damage or injury caused by reason of the installation or maintenance of the barriers in the sidewalk, and the owner or owners or subsequent owner or owners of the respective property shall be solely liable for any damage or loss occasioned by any act or neglect in respect to the installation or maintenance of the barriers in the sidewalk. 
	Before the issuance of the permit, the applicant therefor shall be required to pay to the said Department, as an inspection fee, the sum of $100 for each 25 feet, or fractional part thereof, of the sidewalk frontage of the property. 
	A copy of each permit issued under the provisions of this Section shall be recorded in the office of the Recorder of the City and County of San Francisco. 
	The Board of Supervisors shall have the right of approval and/or revocation of any permit for the installation and maintenance of barriers on public sidewalks. 
(Amended by Ord. 391-81, App. 7/3/81; Ord. 401-87, App. 9/25/87)
SEC. 723.2.  MINOR SIDEWALK ENCROACHMENTS.
	(a)	The Director of Public Works may grant permission, revocable at his or her will, to an owner of property abutting any court, alley or street to install and maintain minor encroachments such as fences, retaining walls, steps or stairways and other minor structures in the sidewalk fronting such property where such encroachments are desirable or convenient in conjunction with the owner's use and enjoyment of the property, or required for the safety, convenience and comfort of the public using the sidewalk. 
	(b)	Such encroachments shall not occupy more than 10 percent of the area of the sidewalk fronting the property nor more than 25 percent of the width of the sidewalk, unless the Director of Public Works determines that such restrictions are not applicable due to the nature of the encroachment. The Director may require further restrictions or modifications and impose such conditions as he or she deems necessary. No advertisement shall be permitted on the encroachments. 
	(c)	In considering the issuance of permits under the provisions of this Section, the Director of Public Works shall give due regard to the location, neighborhood pattern, anticipated pedestrian traffic, access requirements of the Fire Department, and to the convenience and necessities of the owners, occupants or tenants of offices, stores or shops in the vicinity. 
	(d)	The owner of the real property or the owner's authorized agent applying for a permit under the provisions of this Section shall agree to hold harmless the City and County of San Francisco, its officers, agents, and employees, from any damage or injury caused by reason of the installation or maintenance of the encroachment in the sidewalk, and the owner or owners or subsequent owner or owners of the respective real property shall be solely liable for any damage or loss occasioned by any act or neglect in respect to the installation or maintenance of the encroachments in the sidewalk. 
	(e)	Each permit issued under the provisions of this Section shall not become effective until the permit has been signed by the owner or the owner's authorized agent and a copy thereof has been recorded in the office of the Recorder of the City and County of San Francisco. Within 15 days following the approval, denial or revocation of a permit by the Director, any person may file a notice of appeal as follows: 
		(1)	Appeals of the revocation or denial of a permit issued by the Director for the following encroachments that impede or otherwise impact the Central Subway Corridor, as defined in Section 723.3(3) of this Code; subsidewalk encroachments below the public right-of-way or other encroachments in, on, and/or below the public right-of-way may be appealed to the Board of Supervisors by filing a notice of appeal with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors. 
		(2)	Appeals of the approval, denial or revocation of all other permits may be appealed by filing a notice of appeal with the Board of Appeal. 
		(3)	In the alternative, when the encroachment is related to building construction, rehabilitation or maintenance, any person may appeal the encroachment permit decision to the Building Inspection Commission. A person waives his or her right to appeal to the Building Inspection Commission encroachment permit decisions relating to building construction, rehabilitation or maintenance by instead filing the appeal with the Board of Supervisors or the Board of Appeals. No encroachment permit decision may be appealed to both bodies. 
	(f)	For purposes of this Section, an encroachment permit is related to building construction, rehabilitation or maintenance when the object of the encroachment permit affects the applicant's ability to construct, repair or maintain the building. 
	(g)	Pending decision by the Board of Supervisors, the Board of Appeals or the Building Inspection Commission, the permit decision by the Director shall be suspended. 
	(h)	Before issuance of the permit, the applicant shall be required to pay to the Department of Public Works a fee as set forth in Section 2.1.1 et seq. and a public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee as set forth in subsection (k). 
	(i)	Nothing in this Section shall be construed as authorizing the Director of Public Works to grant permit for any encroachment which he or she determines to be inimical to the health, welfare, safety and best interest of the general public, or in violation of the Charter or laws of the City and County of San Francisco or laws of the State of California. 
	(j)	The Board of Supervisors, the Board of Appeals or the Building Inspection Commission may affirm, reverse or modify any permit decision made by the Director of Public Works under the provisions of this Section. The decision by the Board of Supervisors, the Board of Appeals or the Building Inspection Commission is final. 
	(k)	The Board of Supervisors reserves the right to exact a public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee for the use of the sidewalk or other public right-of-way space permitted under the provisions of this Section. 
		(1)	In accordance with Subsection (k) the public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee for minor sidewalk encroachments, whether permitted or unpermitted and as specified in Subsection (k)(2), shall be an annual fee of $3.00 per square foot of occupancy of the sidewalk or other public right-of-way space. For purposes of calculating the assessment fee, the Department shall charge no less than $100.00 per year even though the calculated square footage charge for the encroachment may result in a smaller assessment fee. 
		(2)	The following categories of minor sidewalk encroachments are subject to the public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee:
			(a)	Encroachments in, on, above, or below the public right-of-way that are affixed or appurtenant to any building whose owner obtained a site permit for new construction on or after August 29, 2005. This Subsection (k)(2)(a) also shall apply to any commercial, industrial, or mixed-use building whose owner obtained a site permit for new construction prior to August 29, 2005; provided, however, that such building is not located in any Neighborhood Commercial District as designated in Planning Code Article 7 and that the encroachment associated with such building was installed or encroachment permit obtained prior to August 29, 2005. This Subsection shall specifically include, but not be limited to, doors that open over the public right-of-way and subsidewalk basements; provided, however, that this Subsection shall exclude encroachments for shoring and tiebacks. This Subsection shall not apply to a building that has been converted from a commercial, industrial, or mixed-use building into building containing only residential use. 
			(b)	Encroachments associated with a commercial, industrial, or mixed-use building that change the vertical or horizontal plane of an existing sidewalk and modify the existing sidewalk slope pattern in order to provide access necessary to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act; provided, however, that the building obtained a site permit for new construction on or after August 29, 2005. 
			(c)	Any enclosure of the public right-of-way that is used exclusively for private benefit and was installed on or after August 29, 2005. This Subsection (k)(2)(c) also shall apply to any enclosure installed prior to August 29, 2005 that is associated with a commercial, industrial, or mixed-use building; provided, however, that the building is not located in any Neighborhood Commercial District as designated in Planning Code Article 7, 
			(d)	Underground storage tanks.
		(3)	For purposes of Subsection (k)(2), the term "site permit" also shall mean "building permit."
		(4)	Notwithstanding Subsection (k)(2), no public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee shall be charged against the owner of an historic or architecturally significant building who has installed or seeks a permit to install a minor sidewalk encroachment in order to conform with an applicable Municipal Code; provided, however that this exception shall not apply if the encroachment is a sub-sidewalk basement. For purposes of this Subsection, an historic or architecturally significant building shall be a building so designated pursuant to Planning Code Article 10 or specifically identified as an architecturally significant building on the Planning Department's database or on a list maintained by the Planning Department. 
		(5)	Notwithstanding Subsection (k)(2), no public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee shall be charged against the owner of a property for elements installed as a requirement under Planning Code Section 138.1. 
		(6)	The public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee shall be subject to the review and adjustment procedures as forth in Sections 2.1.1 et seq. 
		(7)	The public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee shall not be charged to any federal, state, or local governmental agencies, commissions, or departments. 
		(8)	Notwithstanding this Subsection (m), the public right-of-way assessment fee for underground vaults shall be as specified in Section 2.1.1 et seq. 
	(l)	Notwithstanding the fees specified herein, if a project involves voluntary seismic retrofit upgrades to soft-story, wood-frame buildings, as defined by the Director of the Department of Building Inspection, such project applicant shall be exempt from the proportionate share of fees specified under this Section and Sections 2.1.1 et seq. that is related to such retrofit work. 
(Added by Ord. 391-81, App. 7/3/81; amended by Ord. 474-97, App. 12/23/97; Ord. 244-00, File No. 001354, App. 10/27/2000; Ord. 179-05, File No. 050986, App. 7/29/2005; Ord. 57-06, File No. 060081, App. 3/31/2006; Ord. 165-07, File No. 070452, App. 7/20/2007; Ord. 48-09, File No. 081598, App. 4/2/2009; Ord. 209-09, File No. 090934, App. 9/25/2009; Ord. 54-10, File No. 091113, App. 3/19/2010; ; Ord. 77-10, File No. 091165, App. 4/16/2010; Ord. 248-10, File No. 100757, App. 10/14/2010; Ord. 310-10, File No. 101194, App. 12/16/2010) 
SEC. 723.3.  UNPERMITTED SUBSIDEWALK ENCROACHMENT INTO THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY ALONG THE CENTRAL SUBWAY CORRIDOR.
	(a)	For purposes of Section 723.3, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
		(1)	"Property Owner" means the record owner of the Property.
		(2)	"Property" means the real property immediately abutting, adjacent or otherwise connected to an unpermitted subsidewalk obstruction or other encroachment into the public right-of-way. 
		(3)	"Central Subway Corridor" shall mean the north-south subway alignment commencing at Fourth and King Streets and continuing via Fourth and via Stockton Streets to the terminus located on the north side of the intersection of Stockton and Jackson Streets. 
		(4)	"Unpermitted" shall mean the unauthorized use of a subsidewalk obstruction or other encroachment into the public right-of-way, including those obstructions or encroachments for which a permit has been revoked, annulled or for which a permit has not been issued. 
	(b)	Notwithstanding any permit, license, easement or authorization of any kind, an unpermitted subsidewalk obstruction or other encroachment into the public right-of-way along the Central Subway Corridor shall constitute a public nuisance that the City may abate by any legal means, and the abatement of such nuisance shall be at the expense of the Property Owner. 
	(c)	Notice to abate nuisance.
		(1)	Notwithstanding any other remedy, upon request from the Central Subway Project Manager, the Director of Public Works shall mail a notice to the Property Owner, any known occupant of the unpermitted subsidewalk obstruction or encroachment and any mortgagee or beneficiary under a recorded deed of trust. 
		(2)	The notice shall state the conditions that constitute the public nuisance and shall order the abatement of the nuisance within a specific amount of time after the date of the notice. The time allowed for abatement shall be a reasonable time in the judgment of the Director of Public Works, based upon the circumstances of the particular nuisance. 
		(3)	The Director of Public Works shall serve the notice by first class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the Property Owner as that address appears on the last equalized assessment roll or as known to the Director of Public Works. If no address appears, then a copy of the notice shall be mailed addressed to the Property Owner at the address of the Property. The Director of Public Works shall also serve the notice by first class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to any known occupant of the subsidewalk obstruction or encroachment determined to constitute a nuisance. 
	Service of the notice is effective on the date of mailing. 
		(4)	The Director of Public Works shall retain in the file a declaration of the person effecting service declaring the date, time and manner that service was made. 
	(d)	Effect of failure to abate. If the Property Owner does not comply with the notice prescribed in Section 723.3(c), the Director of Public Works may permit the Municipal Transportation Agency to abate the nuisance by giving a second notice in the same manner set forth in Section 723.3(c). The second notice shall direct the Property Owner and the occupant of the subsidewalk obstruction or encroachment to appear before the Director of Transportation, or his or her designee, at a stated time and place to show cause why the nuisance should not be abated. The notice shall be titled "Notice of Hearing to Abate Nuisance" and shall be substantially in the following form: 
NOTICE OF HEARING TO ABATE NUISANCE
____________, the owner(s)/occupant(s) of real property located at ____________, is notified to appear before the Director of Transportation, or his or her designee, at a hearing to be held on ____________, 20___, at ____________ o'clock, at ____________ [insert location of hearing], and show cause, if any he or she has, why the nuisance should not be abated and the cost of abatement of the nuisance on that parcel of land should not be made a special assessment against the parcel. A notice to you previously sent on ____________ 20___; is attached for further details regarding the nuisance. 
	(e)	Hearing. At the time fixed in the notice, the Director of Transportation, or his or her designee, shall hear the testimony of all interested persons desiring to testify respecting the condition constituting the nuisance, including the estimated cost of its abatement and any other matter which may be pertinent. Following the conclusion of the hearing, the Director of Transportation, or his or her designee may, by written statement, declare his or her findings. The Director of Transportation, or his or her designee, may order the Property Owner to abate the nuisance within a specific time, which is reasonable under the circumstances, after the date of serving the notice of the written statement. 
	(f)	Abatement by City. If the Property Owner fails to abate the nuisance within the time set forth, the Municipal Transportation Agency may proceed to abate the nuisance. 
	(g)	Recoverable expenses. The expense of abatement of a nuisance under this Section 723.3 shall be a lien against the Property. 
		(1)	A recoverable expense shall include but not be limited to the following:
			(a)	The hourly rates for personnel time in (i) preparing for and attending all inspections, (ii) preparing all written reports and memos, (iii) preparing for and attending all meetings at which the enforcement actions against the property being charged with the expense is the subject, (iv) preparing for and attending all official enforcement proceedings, including but not limited to proceedings before the Director of Transportation, or his or her designee, and (v) preparing for and attending civil or criminal proceedings instituted in state or federal court; and 
			(b)	The cost of services rendered by third parties such as the preparation of title reports, investigative services, process servers and consulting services (including costs of estimates, appraisals, work and abatement). 
			(c)	Attorneys' fees incurred due to any enforcement proceedings commenced by the city pursuant to this code shall be awarded to the prevailing party. The proceedings shall be considered to have commenced upon the city's initial inspection of the property that is the subject of the proceeding. If the Property Owner against whom the enforcement proceeding is pursued is found to be in violation of this Section, the city shall be deemed to be the prevailing party. In no action, administrative proceeding, or special proceeding shall an award of attorneys' fees to a prevailing party exceed the amount of attorneys' fees incurred by the city in the action or proceeding. Any award to the city of its attorneys' fees shall be collectable as a recoverable expense and shall be included in the statement of expense and provided for hereunder. 
	(h)	Statement of expenses. The Municipal Transportation Agency shall keep an itemized account of its expenses involved in abating the nuisance. After completing abatement of the nuisance, the Municipal Transportation Agency shall mail to the Property Owner a statement including: 
		(1)	What abatement action has been taken;
		(2)	A statement of all removal, administrative and other expenses incurred;
		(3)	That the expenses are due and payable within 45 days from the date of this notice;
		(4)	That if the Property Owner fails to make payment within 45 days, the amount will be charged to the owner on the next regular tax bill and recorded as a lien against the Property; 
		(5)	The date, time and place for a hearing before the Board of Supervisors at which the Property Owner may contest the amount charged. 
	(i)	Hearing on statement of expenses. At the time fixed for the hearing of the statement of expenses, the Board of Supervisors shall consider the statement and protests or objections raised by the Property Owner. The Board of Supervisors may correct or modify the statement as it considers just and thereafter shall finally determine the amount due by written resolution. 
	(j)	Expenses as special assessment against the property. If the Property Owner does not pay the expense of abating the nuisance within 45 days after the Board of Supervisors confirms the costs of abatement, the costs of abatement shall constitute a lien upon the Property and shall be collected as a special assessment against the Property. The assessment shall continue until it is paid, together with interest at the rate of 10 percent per year computed from the date of dispatch of the statement of expenses until payment. The assessment may be collected at the same time and in the same manner as ad valorem real property taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for ad valorem real property taxes. 
	(k)	Notice of special assessment.
		(1)	When a special assessment is charged against property as provided in this Section, the Municipal Transportation Agency shall mail, by certified mail, to the Property Owner and file in the office of the Recorder of the City and County of San Francisco a certificate substantially in the following form: 
NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
	On ____________ 20____, the City and County of San Francisco abated a nuisance on the property located at ____________ (Assessor's Parcel No. ____________). This property is owned by ____________. The abatement was done under the authority of California Government Code Section 38773.5 and San Francisco Public Works Code Section 723.3. 
	The City and County of San Francisco claims a special assessment on the real property for the costs of the abatement in the amount of $____________. This amount is a special assessment against the real property until paid with interest at the legal rate of ____________ and discharged of record. This property may be sold after three (3) years by the tax collector for unpaid delinquent assessments. 
	The real property referred to in this notice is that parcel of land situated within the City and County of San Francisco, State of California, more specifically described as follows: (insert or attach legal description). 
	Dated: ____________ 20_____ 
	City of San Francisco 
	By: ____________ 
		(2)	The city shall file with the Auditor of the City and County of San Francisco a certified copy of the notice of special assessment, a brief description of the abatement action taken and a request that the charges be added to the tax rolls and collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary municipal taxes. Amounts received either as payment on a property tax bill or final sale of the Property shall be deposited in the Municipal Transportation Fund created by Section 8A.105 of the City Charter minus the administrative costs of the Tax Collector in collecting the payments. 
(Added by Ord. 210-09, File No. 090933, App. 9/25/2009)
SEC. 724.  TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF STREET  PERMITS REQUIRED.
	(a)	Street Space Occupancy Permit. A permit will be required for occupying any part of the street or sidewalk for building construction operations or for any other purpose, and shall be granted only to the owner or lessee of the premises fronting thereon or his or her authorized agent. 
		(1)	Material and equipment shall not occupy more than the designated parking lane width and not more than  of the official sidewalk width along the boundary of the fronting property unless permission is granted pursuant to Sections 724.7 and 724.8 for temporary occupancy of additional street space. For purposes of this Subsection, material and equipment shall mean only construction material used at the site, construction equipment, vehicles bearing the logo or other identifying information so that the City could verify that it belongs to the contractor or a subcontractor working at the site and refuse containers for construction debris. For purposes of Section 724.1(b), material and equipment also shall include any material or equipment related to the proposed use. For purposes of this Subsection, parking lane width shall not exceed eight feet in width, and if such lane also is designated as a commute lane, such lane may not be occupied unless permission is granted pursuant to Sections 724.7 and 724.8 for temporary occupancy of additional street space. 
		(2)	A minimum clearance of four feet must be maintained at all times to accommodate pedestrian path of travel requirements. A minimum clearance of four feet, six inches must be maintained at all times between the materials and equipment and the outer rail of any railroad track. Clearance of materials from fire hydrants, fire alarm boxes and value covers shall be as required by the Fire Department. Clearance of materials from traffic signal controllers and pull boxes shall be as required by the Department of Public Works. 
		(3)	All sand, dirt or other materials shall be prevented from being blown or moved to other parts of the street, or from interfering with other property use. The gutters shall not be obstructed. 
		(4)	Lights, barriers, barricades, signs, cones, and other devices for pedestrian and traffic safety, and other requirements shall be provided as set forth in Department of Public Works orders or regulations. 
		(5)	For purposes of Sections 724 et seq., building construction operations shall include all work related to the construction, demolition, maintenance, repair, or replacement of a building. 
	(b)	Permit Applications.
		(1)	An applicant for a permit shall submit to the Department a written request for a permit no sooner than fifteen days prior to the initiation of the proposed occupation of street space. The permit request shall specify the duration and extent of the proposed occupancy and all other information as set forth in Departmental orders or regulations. 
		(2)	A permit applicant also shall request in writing the basis for any proposed modifications to standard permit requirements, such as extended hours of occupancy for the storage of materials and equipment. 
	(c)	Permit Decisions.
		(1)	The Director of the Department, in his or her discretion, may approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove a street space occupancy permit. When issuing permits, permit modifications or extending the duration of permits, the Director may impose any conditions consistent with the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience, including, but not limited to, appropriate time, place, and manner restrictions and considerations to minimize neighborhood impacts. If the Director of the Department approves or conditionally approves a permit, said permit shall be issued on a monthly basis with a minimum term of one month and a maximum term of six months. In the absence of special conditions, a permit shall entitle the permittee to occupy the specified street space for a period no longer than 7:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m., seven days a week for the term of the permit. 
		(2)	Appeals. The Director's decision on a permit shall be appealable to the Board of Appeals. 
	(d)	Permit Modification.
		(1)	On seven days prior written notice to the Department, a permittee may seek to modify any terms or conditions of an existing valid permit except to extend the duration of a permit pursuant to Subsection (e) or to obtain an additional street space occupancy pursuant to Section 724.7 and 724.8. 
		(2)	A request for a permit modification shall be accompanied by a $50.00 processing fee.
	(e)	Permit Extension.
		(1)	No later than fifteen days prior to expiration of a permit, a permittee may request in writing that a permit extension be granted to extend the duration of the street space occupancy. 
		(2)	The Director shall treat a permit extension request like a new permit, and the Director, in his or her discretion, may issue or deny the extension or impose new or modified conditions on the permit extension. 
	(f)	All street occupancy permits are revocable at the will of the Director. In addition, when, in the judgment of the Director of Public Works, the public interest or convenience will be served by the removal of the dirt, debris, materials and equipment or any portion thereof from the street or sidewalk space, the Director shall modify, condition, or revoke the permit accordingly. 
(Amended by Ord. 31-85, App. 1/17/85; Ord. 180-02, File No. 021067, App. 8/29/2002)
SEC. 724.1.  TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF STREET  FEES TO BE PAID.
	(a)	No permit shall be issued to a private or public entity for the temporary occupancy of the street for building construction operations unless a fee and public right-of-way occupancy assessment are paid. The fee shall be $15.42, per month, per 20 linear feet, or fraction thereof, occupied as measured parallel with the face of curb. In addition to the fee, the permit applicant shall pay a public right-of-way occupancy assessment of $100.00, per month, per 20 linear feet, or fraction thereof, occupied as measured parallel with the face of curb. For purposes of calculating fees and assessment costs, the Department shall use one-month increments even though the permittee may occupy for less than a one-month term. 
	(b)	For temporary street space occupancy for any purpose other than a building construction operation, the fee shall be $57.62 per day with no assessment cost. Unless specified otherwise, such occupation is subject to all provisions of Sections 724 et seq. 
	(c)	Nonprofit organizations with tax exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code shall be exempt from payment of the fee where the street occupancy is necessary for the development of low and moderate income housing as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
	(d)	Refund. If a permittee elects to relinquish all or a portion of the occupied street space prior to termination of the permit, the permittee may seek a refund of fees and occupancy assessment from the Department. There shall be no fee charged for a refund request. Refunds shall be issued based only on one-month increments. 
	(e)	Fee and Assessment Review. Beginning with fiscal year 2012-2013, the permit fee and street occupancy assessment set forth in this Section may be adjusted each year, without further action by the Board of Supervisors, to reflect changes in the relevant Consumer Price Index, as determined by the Controller. No later than April 15th of each year, the Director shall submit its current fee and occupancy assessment schedule to the Controller, who shall apply the price index adjustment to produce a new fee schedule and occupancy assessment for the following year. No later than May 15th of each year, the Controller shall file a report with the Board of Supervisors reporting the new fee schedule and occupancy assessment and certifying that: (a) the permit fees produce sufficient revenue to support the costs of providing the services for which the permit fee is assessed, and (b) the permit fees do not produce revenue which is significantly more than the costs of providing the services for which each permit fee is assessed. Notwithstanding the above, the Board of Supervisors, in its discretion, may modify the street occupancy assessment at any time. 
	(f)	Additional Fees. In instances where administration of this permit program or inspection of a street space occupancy is or will be unusually costly to the Department, the Director, in his or her discretion, may require an applicant or permittee to pay any sum in excess of the amounts charged above. This additional sum shall be sufficient to recover actual costs incurred by the Department and shall be charged on a time and materials basis. The Director also may charge for any time and materials costs incurred by other agencies, boards, commissions, or departments of the City in connection with the administration or inspection of the street space occupancy. Whenever additional fees are charged, the Director, upon request of the applicant or permittee, shall provide in writing the basis for the additional fees and an estimate of the additional fees. 
(Amended by Ord. 31-85, App. 1/17/85; Ord. 167-87, App. 5/14/87; Ord. 180-02, File No. 021067, App. 8/29/2002; Ord. 179-05, File No. 050986, App. 7/29/2005; Ord. 197-07, File No. 070811, App. 8/3/2007; Ord. 158-11, File No. 110709, App. 8/1/2011, Eff. 8/31/2011) 
SEC. 724.2.  TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF STREET  PERMITTEE TO REPAIR DEFECTS.
	The permittee shall be required to repair all defects in, and to keep in repair, that part of the public right-of-way and associated public infrastructure, including, but not limited to streets, signs and parking meters, for which said permit is issued, which may be or become a hazard to any member of the public lawfully using the same during the time for which said permit shall be issued or upon termination or expiration of said permit. The permittee assumes this responsibility regardless of the cause of said defects and whether said defects develop while said permit is in effect. It shall be presumed that all defects were caused by the permittee unless the permittee can demonstrate otherwise to the satisfaction of the Director. 
(Amended by Ord. 31-85, App. 1/17/85; Ord. 447-87, App. 11/12/87; Ord. 180-02, File No. 021067, App. 8/29/2002)
SEC. 724.3.  PLACARDS AND SIGNS.
	(a)	Placards. A permittee shall display a placard at the site subject to a street space occupancy permit. The placard shall be mounted on the exterior of the fronting property, or where the site is vacant or it is impractical to mount the placard on the fronting property, the permittee may attach the placard on a post, pole, wall, or other object. A permittee shall mount the placard in a location where members of the public can easily read the required information but cannot tamper with the placard. The permittee shall mount the placard 72 hours in advance of the occupancy authorized in the permit, shall keep the placard posted for the entire term of the permit, and shall remove it immediately upon termination of the permit. All information contained on the placard shall be legible. The placard shall contain the following information: name of the permittee, a telephone number where the permittee can be reached during the hours of the permit, the duration of the permit including start and stop dates and hours of use, a geographic description of the street space occupied under the permit, the permit number, and the Department's street space hotline telephone number. The Department shall provide a placard to each permittee. It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to insert the required information, mount the placard, and ensure proper maintenance of the placard. If any required information on a placard must be modified, the permittee shall obtain a new placard rather than change the information on the existing placard. If the Director follows the procedures set forth in Section 724.4(b), he or she may waive or modify the provisions of this subsection as they pertain to a particular type of permitted activities. 
	(b)	Signs. Signs shall be posted every 20 linear feet of occupied space with at least one sign at each end of the occupied space. Signs shall contain the following information: the effective dates and times of the permit; the permit number; the Department of Public Works' street space hotline telephone number; and notice that if the Public Works Code requires an on-site placard, additional information about the permit may be found on the placard. The permittee shall post signs 72 hours in advance of the occupancy authorized in the permit and remove such signs upon termination of the permit. A permittee must maintain signs during the entire term of occupancy and during the hours specified in the permit. If any information required on a sign must be modified, the permittee shall install new signs rather than change the information on the existing sign. If signs are removed, modified, or altered in any way, it shall be the permittee's responsibility to install new signs containing the required information. 
	(c)	Good Neighbor Policy. Notwithstanding the above, if a permittee does not require use of the permit area for all hours covered by the permit, the permittee shall allow members of the public to park vehicles in legal parking spaces. Rules governing the good neighbor policy shall be developed pursuant to Section 724.4(b). 
(Amended by Ord. 31-85, App. 1/17/85; Ord. 401-87, App. 9/25/87; Ord. 180-02, File No. 021067, App. 8/29/2002; Ord. 77-03, File No. 021854, App. 5/2/2003) 
SEC. 724.4.  CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION SITES; DEPARTMENTAL ORDERS AND REGULATIONS.
	(a)	All construction or demolition contractors shall be responsible for maintaining their work-sites in a reasonably clean and litter-free condition, including the removal of all refuse blown or deposited upon the site. The contractor shall provide a sufficient number of refuse receptacles or bulk containers for the disposal of loose debris, building material waste, and other refuse produced by those working on the site and shall maintain the site in such a manner as to prevent its dispersal by the wind or other elements. The sidewalks and streets shall be maintained in a clean manner and free from dirt or other materials produced by the demolition or construction. 
	(b)	In addition to the requirements set forth in this Section, the Director may adopt such orders, policies, regulations, rules, or standard plans and specifications as he or she deems necessary in order to preserve and maintain the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience. Such orders, policies, regulations, or rules may include, but are not limited to, permit application materials, placement of placards and signs, implementation of the good neighbor policy, site conditions, accessibility of sidewalks and streets. When such orders, policies, regulations or rules will affect the operations and enforcement of the Municipal Transportation Agency, the Director of the Department of Public Works shall consult with and provide an opportunity to comment to the Municipal Transportation Agency prior to adoption of such orders, policies, regulations, or rules. 
(Amended by Ord. 499-77, App. 11/4/77; Ord. 180-02, File No. 021067, App. 8/29/2002; Ord. 287-08, File No. 081340, App. 12/5/2008)
SEC. 724.5.  EXCEEDING PERMISSIBLE USE OR OCCUPATION WITHOUT PERMISSION  PENALTY FEE AND CRIMINAL PENALTY.
	(a)	If the Director of Public Works determines that the permittee has exceeded the scope of the temporary street occupancy permit, either in terms of duration or area, or determines any other violation of the permit terms or conditions has occurred, the Director of Public Works shall order the permittee to correct the violation within a specified time period. If any person has occupied public right-of-way without permission for purposes of building construction operation or for any other purpose, the Director shall immediately order the violator to vacate the occupied area. Should the violation not be corrected as ordered or in the case of occupation without a permit, the permittee or person shall pay a penalty fee of up to $1,000 per day for each day of violation. Failure to pay any fee assessed under these provisions shall constitute good cause for immediate revocation of the temporary street occupancy permit or removal of unpermitted obstructions, and the project property shall be subject to a lien in the same amount, in accordance with the requirements of Article XX of Chapter 10 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, commencing with Section 10.230. 
	(b)	Criminal Penalty.
		(1)	Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Section shall be guilty of an infraction at each location where such violation occurs. Every violation determined to be an infraction is punishable by (1) a fine not exceeding $100 for the first violation within one year; (2) a fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year from the date of the first violation; (3) a fine not exceeding $500 for the third and each additional violation within one year from the date of the first violation. 
		(2)	When a government official authorized to enforce this Section has reasonable cause to believe that any person has committed an infraction in the official's presence that is a violation of this Section, the official may issue a citation to that person pursuant to California Penal Code, Part II, Title 3, Chapters 5, 5C, and 5D. 
	(c)	Administrative Penalty. In the alternative to the criminal penalty authorized by Subsection (b) of this Section for violations of Section 724.4(a), Department of Public Works officials designated in Section 38 of the Police Code may issue administrative citations for violations of Section 724(a). The administrative penalty shall not exceed $300 for each violation. Such penalty shall be assessed, enforced and collected in accordance with Section 39-1 of the Police Code. 
(Added by Ord. 31-85, App. 1/17/85; amended by Ord. 166-87, App. 5/14/87; Ord. 322-00, File No. 001917, App. 12/28/2000; Ord. 180-02, File No. 021067, App. 8/29/2002; Ord. 87-03, File No. 030482, App. 5/9/2003) 
SEC. 724.6.  UNPAID FEES AND FAILURE TO RESTORE PAVEMENT; WILFUL NONCOMPLIANCE.
	The Central Permit Bureau shall not issue a Certificate of Final or Temporary Completion and Occupancy for any project for which temporary street occupancy applications, permit fees or penalty fees are outstanding, or for which any required pavement or sidewalk restoration has not been satisfactorily completed. In addition, a person who is in wilful noncompliance with this Section shall not apply for nor be issued a new street space occupancy permit unless the Director, by written authorization, grants a waiver to this prohibition. Wilful noncompliance shall include, without limitation, deliberate acts that result in failure to: (a) satisfy any requirements, terms, or conditions of this Section, or the orders, policies, regulations, rules, or standard plans and specifications of the Department or (b) pay any outstanding assessments, fees, penalties set forth in this Section that have been finally determined by the City or a court of competent jurisdiction. 
(Added by Ord. 31-85, App. 1/17/85; amended by Ord. 180-02, File No. 021067, App. 8/29/2002)
SEC. 724.7.  TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF STREET  ADDITIONAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
	(a)	Any person seeking to close off more than the designated parking lane width, as established in Section 724, and more than  of the official sidewalk width along the boundary of the fronting property must apply for an additional temporary street occupancy permit as provided for herein. A revocable permit for additional temporary street occupancy shall not be issued unless an application therefor is made to the Director of Public Works, and a fee and a public right-of-way assessment cost, as set forth in Section 724.8, are paid. The content of applications shall be in accordance with the policies, rules and regulations of the Director of Public Works. All applications shall be on forms prescribed therefor and shall contain or be accompanied by all information required to assure the presentation of pertinent facts for proper consideration of the case. The application shall include both a reasonable estimate of the duration of construction, and an explanation of why an additional temporary street occupancy permit of the particular dimensions requested is necessary and shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable additional permit application fee of $353. Requests for extensions of the original term shall be treated as new applications except that the application fee shall be $200. 
	(b)	No additional temporary street occupancy permit shall have a term of more than six months nor less than one month from the date of issuance. At the end of the original term or of any subsequent extension, the permittee may apply to the Director of Public Works for an extension not to exceed six months in duration. The Director of Public Works, in his or her discretion, may approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the request for an extension. Said decision will be appealable to the Board of Appeals. 
	(c)	Applicants for additional street space shall make a written request for such permit no sooner than 30 days prior to initiation of the proposed occupation of additional street space. 
	(d)	Notwithstanding the time period for occupancy and permit requests specified above, an additional street space permit may be obtained on a daily basis, but in no case shall such occupancy extend beyond a 2-week term. The fee for such daily permits shall be $50 per day with no assessment cost. An applicant shall make a written request for such daily permit no sooner than 3 days prior to initiation of the proposed occupation of additional street space. 
	(e)	Unless otherwise specified, all provisions of Sections 724 et seq. shall be applicable to additional street space occupancy.
(Added by Ord. 31-85, App. 1/17/85; amended by Ord. 166-87, App. 5/14/87; Ord. 180-02, File No. 021067, App. 8/29/2002)
SEC. 724.8.  ASSESSMENT COSTS FOR ADDITIONAL STREET SPACE.
	An additional public right-of-way assessment cost shall be paid upon the issuance of such additional temporary street occupancy permit. The assessment cost shall be as follows: (a) for a building in Planning Code height district of 80 feet or less, the cost shall be $4 per additional square foot of occupation per month and (b) for a building in Planning Code height district of greater than 80 feet, the cost shall be $10 per additional square foot of occupation per month. For purposes of calculating the assessment costs, the Department shall use one-month increments even though the permittee may occupy for less than a one-month term. For the purpose of calculating the assessment cost, requests for extensions of permits shall be treated as new applications. 
(Added by Ord. 31-85, App. 1/17/85; amended by Ord. 180-02, File No. 021067, App. 8/29/2002)
SEC. 724.9.  TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF STREET  PERMITTEE TO DEFEND AND INDEMNIFY CITY AND COUNTY.
	(a)	The permittee, or its successors or assigns in interest, by acceptance of the permit agrees to indemnify, defend, protect, and hold harmless the City, including, without limitation, each of its commissions, departments, officers, agents, and employees (hereinafter in this subsection collectively referred to as "San Francisco") from and against any and all actions, claims, costs, damages, demands, expense, fines, injuries, judgments, liabilities, losses, penalties, or suits including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and costs (collectively, "claims") of any kind allegedly arising directly or indirectly from: 
		(1)	Any act by, omission by, or negligence of the permittee, its contractors, subcontractors, or the officers, agents, or employees such entities, while engaged in the performance of the work authorized by the permit, or while in or about the property subject to the permit for any reason connected in anyway whatsoever with the performance of the work authorized by the permit, or allegedly resulting directly or indirectly from the maintenance, installation, or storage of any materials, equipment, or structures authorized under the permit; 
		(2)	Any accident, damage, death, or injury to any contractor or subcontractor, or any officer, agent or employee of either of them, while engaged in the performance of the work authorized by the permit, or while in or about the property for any reason connected with the performance of the work authorized by the permit, or arising from liens or claims for services rendered or labor or materials furnished in or for the performance of the work authorized by the permit; 
		(3)	Any accident, damage, death, or injury to any person(s) or accident, damage, or injury to any real or personal property in, upon, or in any way allegedly connected with the work authorized by the permit from any cause or claims arising at any time; and 
		(4)	Any release or discharge, or threatened release or discharge, of any hazardous material caused or allowed by permittee about, in, on, or under the public right-of-way subject to the permit or the environment. As used herein, "hazardous material" means any gas, material, substance, or waste which, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical or chemical characteristics, is deemed by any federal, state, or local governmental authority to pose a present or potential hazard to human health or safety or to the environment. "Release" when used with respect to hazardous materials shall include any actual or imminent disposing, dumping, emitting, emptying, escaping, injecting, leaching, leaking, pumping, pouring, or spilling. 
	(b)	Upon the request of San Francisco, the permittee, at no cost or expense to San Francisco, must indemnify, defend, and hold harmless San Francisco against any claims, regardless of the alleged negligence of San Francisco or any other party, except only for claims resulting directly from the sole negligence or wilful misconduct of San Francisco. Each permittee specifically acknowledges and agrees that it has an immediate and independent obligation to defend San Francisco from any claims which actually or potentially fall within the indemnity provision, even if the allegations are or may be groundless, false, or fraudulent, which obligation arises at the time such claim is tendered to permittee by San Francisco and continues at all times thereafter. In addition, San Francisco shall have a cause of action for indemnity against each permittee for any costs San Francisco may be required to pay as a result of defending or satisfying any claims that arise from or in connection with the permit, except only for claims resulting directly from the sole negligence or wilful misconduct of San Francisco. Permittee agrees that the indemnification obligations assumed under the permit shall survive expiration of the permit. 
(Added by Ord. 447-87, App. 11/12/87; amended by Ord. 180-02, File No. 021067, App. 8/29/2002)
SEC. 725.  DEBRIS BOX DEFINED.
	A debris box is any portable non-vehicular container offered by its owner for use as a means of disposal of waste materials by being placed for loading in, and by being transported through the streets of the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 174-67, App. 7/14/67)
SEC. 725.1.  AUTHORIZED USES.
	Debris boxes shall be used only for the following purposes: 
	(a)	The loading and transporting of excavated and waste materials derived from the construction, reconstruction, alteration, or demolition of real property structures; 
	(b)	The removal of debris and waste materials not required by law to be otherwise disposed of by owners, lessees or occupants of real property. 
(Added by Ord. 174-67, App. 7/14/67)
SEC. 725.2.  REGISTRATION OR PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PLACEMENT.
	(a)	No person, firm, or corporation owning a debris box or debris boxes shall place such box or boxes, or permit the same, in any street areas of the City and County of San Francisco without first registering with the Department of Public Works and obtaining either a registration number or permit for each debris box from the Department of Public Works. A registration number or permit shall be required for every debris box whether or not such box will be used to serve a project for which a street occupancy or building permit, or both, has been issued. 
	(b)	If the person, firm, or corporation elects to obtain permits for each debris box, a new permit shall be required for a substitute box at any one location. 
	(c)	The Director of Public Works shall not issue registration numbers or permits to a debris box owner unless the owner has provided a bond in the amount of $5,000 in the format specified by the Director to guarantee compliance with this Article. 
(Amended by Ord. 72-87, App. 3/20/87)
SEC. 725.3.  REGISTRATION OR PERMIT CONDITIONS AND INSPECTION FEES.
	(a)	Registration Option. Registration numbers shall be valid for one year, and shall be renewed annually, from the date established by the Director of Public Works. The registration and inspection fee for each box shall be $250 annually. The registration numbers shall be affixed securely to the exterior of either end of the debris box. A list of debris box registration numbers shall be kept on file in the City Engineer's office. 
	(b)	Permit Option. Each permit issued shall be valid for the duration of each debris box placement for any one location. The permit issuance and inspection fee shall be $20 for each permit issued. The permits shall be affixed securely to the exterior of either end of the debris box. A list of the location and permit number for each permit issued shall be kept on file in the City Engineer's office. 
	(c)	Removal By Director. The Director of Public Works is authorized to order the immediate removal of a debris box when, in his or her opinion, the debris box constitutes a safety hazard or public nuisance, or when the presence of an emergency requires removal of the debris box. After notification by the Director of the removal order the debris box shall be removed immediately from the street area by its owner. If the owner does not remove the debris box immediately, the Director may order the Department of Public Works to remove the debris box. The owner shall pay to the City the costs of removal. No debris box shall be placed at that location until the conditions which have caused the removal order shall have been abated to the satisfaction of said Director. 
(Amended by Ord. 72-87, App. 3/20/87; Ord. 255-92, App. 8/7/92)
SEC. 725.4.  NONLIABILITY OF SAN FRANCISCO; SAVE HARMLESS CLAUSE.
	Each registration number certificate or permit issued for a debris box shall provide that it is granted on the condition that the owner shall indemnify and save harmless the City and County of San Francisco, and its officers and employees, from any and all claims, losses, damages, injuries and liabilities, howsoever the same may be caused and regardless of the negligence of the City and County of San Francisco, resulting directly or indirectly from the presence of the debris box on the street, and that the acceptance of the registration shall bind the owner to so indemnify and save harmless the City and County of San Francisco and its officers and employees. 
(Amended by Ord. 72-87, App. 3/20/87)
SEC. 725.5.  PLACEMENT OF BOXES.
	(a)	A debris box shall be placed in the roadway area of the street parallel to the curb with its outer edge no more than eight feet from the face of the curb. Its placement shall be further subjected to all laws relating to the prohibition of parking unless specifically exempted from compliance therewith by written approval of the Director of Public Works. Further, no debris box shall be placed in the sidewalk area without permission of said Director. The duration of each debris box placement shall be limited to not more than seven days. 
	(b)	No debris box approved by the Director of Public Works to be placed in a residential area shall be delivered or removed for transport between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. 
(Amended by Ord. 72-87, App. 3/20/87; Ord. 281-91, App. 7/3/91)
SEC. 725.6.  REFLECTORS AND STRIPING.
	There shall be installed, on the exterior of the ends of each debris box, four reflective type warning devices, each having a red reflecting area of at least three inches in diameter. The devices shall be so placed that one device shall be located near each edge that abuts the side of the box and that they shall be no less than 24 inches or more than 45 inches from ground level. Further, both ends of each box shall be painted entirely in four-inch wide alternate color diagonal stripings, the colors for which shall be as approved by the Director of Public Works. 
(Added by Ord. 174-67, App. 7/14/67)
SEC. 725.7.  IDENTIFICATION OF OWNER.
	The owner's name, address, telephone number and the debris box identification number shall be clearly imprinted on both sides of each box in a manner approved by the Director of Public Works. Imprinting other than such identification of the owner and posting of advertisements are prohibited. 
(Amended by Ord. 72-87, App. 3/20/87)
SEC. 725.8.  COVERS REQUIRED FOR TRANSPORTING.
	All contents of a debris box shall be completely covered at all times while being transported through the city streets. 
(Added by Ord. 174-67, App. 7/14/67)
SEC. 725.9.  PENALTIES.
	(a)	The placement of a debris box on a street without a registration number or permit as required in Section 725.2 shall constitute an infraction punishable by a fine of $100. The nonpayment of such fine, or the existence of a condition in violation of any of the regulations of Sections 725.3, 725.5, 725.6, 725.7 and 725.8, shall be grounds for the Director of Public Works to prohibit placement of debris boxes in streets by the debris box owner until such penalty has been paid or the condition corrected. 
	(b)	Further, a violation of any regulation in Sections 725.3, 725.5, 725.6, 725.7, 725.8 shall constitute:
		(1)	An infraction punishable by a fine of $100, or
		(2)	A misdemeanor, and any person, firm, or corporation upon conviction of such violation shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than five days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. 
(Amended by Ord. 72-87, App. 3/20/87)
SEC. 725.10.  REMOVAL OF DEBRIS BOXES.
	(a)	The Director is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, any debris box placed in a street or sidewalk area in violation of the requirements of Sections 725-725.9 of this Article. Removal shall take place no earlier than 48 hours after notice is given describing the violation(s). The notice shall be both mailed to the debris box owner and placed in a conspicuous manner on the debris box, and shall contain the following: 
		(1)	The condition(s) violated,
		(2)	The date and time of posting,
		(3)	The location of the debris box,
		(4)	The identify of the person giving the notice,
		(5)	A statement giving notice of 48 hours to remedy the violation(s).
	(b)	Debris boxes which have been removed may be recovered upon payment of a sum equal to the cost of removing said boxes including a 20 percent charge for administrative costs as determined by the Department of Public Works, and any costs incurred by the Department of Public Works in disposing of any materials contained in the debris boxes. Costs incurred as a result of removal under this Section are in addition to any fines or penalties incurred under Section 725.9. 
(Added by Ord. 72-87, App. 3/20/87)
SEC. 725.11.  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
	The Director is hereby authorized to promulgate rules and regulations for compliance with Sections 725-725.10. 
(Added by Ord. 72-87, App. 3/20/87)
SEC. 725.12.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of Sections 725-725.10 of this Article or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of Sections 725-725.10 of this Article or any part thereof. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid, or ineffective. 
(Added by Ord. 72-87, App. 3/20/87)
SEC. 726.  MOBILE STORAGE CONTAINERS ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY  PERMITS REQUIRED.
	(a)	Mobile Storage Container Permits. An annual and an individual location permit shall be required to occupy any part of the street or sidewalk with a mobile storage container. For purposes of this Section, mobile storage container shall mean a moveable container that is temporarily placed on the public right-of-way and is used by property owners or tenants for short-term storage of items, including, but not limited to, clothing, equipment, goods, household or office fixtures or furnishings, materials, and merchandise. Said containers shall be used only for the purpose of loading and transporting the items specified above or as set forth in the orders and regulations of the Department. 
	(b)	Annual Permit. Each company or individual that operates a mobile storage container business and plans to locate said containers on the public right-of-way in San Francisco shall obtain an annual permit from the Department of Public Works. Said permit will entitle the permit holder to place mobile storage containers on the public right-of-way subject to the provisions of Sections 726 et seq. 
		(1)	An applicant for an annual permit shall submit to the Department a written request for a permit no sooner than 15 days prior to initiation of the first occupation of the public right-of-way with a mobile storage container. The application shall contain the name of the company or individual seeking the annual permit, local contact information, an annual permit fee of $500.00, the deposit set forth in Section 726.3, and any other information specified in Departmental orders or regulations. 
		(2)	The Director, in his or her discretion, may approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove an annual mobile storage container permit. 
		(3)	The Director's decision on an annual permit shall be appealable to the Board of Appeals.
	(c)	Individual Location Permit. An individual location permit shall be obtained for each mobile storage container that will be placed on the right-of-way. 
		(1)	Only annual permit holders may apply for an individual location permit. Said permit holders shall submit a written request to the Department no later than three days prior to occupation of the public right-of-way with a mobile storage container at a particular location. The application shall contain the name of the annual permit holder, local contact information for the permit holder, the proposed location of the mobile storage container(s), name and contact information for the property owner or tenant who will use the container, and any other information specified in Departmental orders or regulations. 
		(2)	An individual location permit fee shall be $50.00 for one day, where the permit is to be issued for a period not to exceed 24 hours, or $100.00 for the first three days of occupancy on the right-of-way. Thereafter, the fee amount shall be $50.00 per container per day of occupancy on the right-of-way location. Said fee or fees may be paid separately for each individual location permit or deducted from the deposit, set forth in Section 726.3. 
		(3)	No individual location permit shall be issued for a period that exceeds seven days.
		(4)	The Director, in his or her discretion, may approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove an individual location permit for the mobile storage container. 
		(5)	The Director's decision on an individual location permit shall be appealable to the Board of Appeals.
	(d)	All mobile storage container permits, whether annual or individual location, are revocable at the will of the Director. In addition, when, in the judgement of the Director, the public interest or convenience will be served by removal or relocation of a mobile storage container from the public right-of-way, the Director shall modify, condition, or revoke the permit accordingly. 
	(e)	The fees set forth above shall be reviewed and modified, as applicable, pursuant to Section 724(e).
(Added by Ord. 170-03, File No. 021726, App. 7/3/2003; amended by Ord. 36-04, File No. 040055, App. 3/19/2004)
SEC. 726.1.  SITING OF THE MOBILE STORAGE CONTAINER.
	(a)	A mobile storage container shall not occupy more than the designated parking lane width or more than  of the official sidewalk width along the boundary of the fronting property unless the Director grants permission for a variance of the standard. 
	(b)	Mobile storage containers shall be placed level to the slope the public right-of-way, parallel to the curb, and in front of the property owned or leased by the individual or entity renting the mobile storage container. No mobile storage container shall be located on a public right-of-way with a slope greater than 17%. No portion of a mobile storage container shall extend over parking lane, over a warped driveway, or over a subsidewalk basement elevator. 
	(c)	Mobile storage containers shall not exceed weight maximums specified in the Department's street loading design parameters.
	(d)	No mobile storage container that is or will be placed in a residentially zoned area shall be delivered or removed for transport between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. 
	(e)	Additional siting requirements shall be those set forth for temporary street occupancy pursuant to Public Works Code Section 724(a)(2)-(4) and in the orders and regulations of the Department. In addition, a minimum clearance of six feet shall be maintained at all times on sidewalks within the C-3 zoning district. 
	(f)	No exception from the siting requirements shall be authorized unless a permittee makes a written request for such exception to the Director. The Director, in his or her own discretion, may approve, conditionally approve, or deny such exception. 
(Added by Ord. 170-03, File No. 021726, App. 7/3/2003)
SEC. 726.2.  INDIVIDUAL LOCATION PERMIT SIGNS TO BE POSTED ON CONTAINERS.
	(a)	An individual location permit sign shall be posted on the street-facing side of each storage container. The sign shall include the name of the annual permit holder, a 24-hour local contact person and telephone number for such permittee, the name and address of the property owner or tenant who is renting the storage container, the duration of the permit with the start and stop date, a geographic description of the public right-of-way occupied under the permit, the annual and individual location permit numbers, and the Department's street space hotline telephone number. All information contained on the sign shall be legible. An additional sign shall be posted on the storage container's side that faces the fronting property. This informational sign shall include a 24-hour local contact person and telephone number for the permittee and the Department's street space hotline telephone number. The Department shall provide sign templates for each annual permit holder. It shall be the responsibility of the annual permittee to insert the required information, mount the sign, keep the sign posted during the entire term of the permit, and ensure proper maintenance of the sign. 
(Added by Ord. 170-03, File No. 021726, App. 7/3/2003)
SEC. 726.3.  ANNUAL PERMITTEE DEPOSIT.
	(a)	Each annual permit applicant shall submit and maintain with the Department a bond, cash deposit, or other security acceptable to the Department securing the faithful performance of the obligations of the annual permittee under any permit(s) for mobile storage containers and the compliance with all terms and conditions of this Section (the "deposit"). The deposit shall be in the sum of $30,000 in favor of the "Department of Public Works, City and County of San Francisco." 
	(b)	An annual permittee may request the Department to deduct the individual location permit fees from a single deposit. After approving such request, the Department will automatically deduct said permit fees so long as a constant balance of $25,000 is maintained on file with the Department. If the permittee elects to renew his or her annual permit and the permittee's deposit exceeds $30,000, the Department shall refund the excess to the permittee unless the permittee requests that the excess be applied to a new annual permit or other charges pursuant to Sections 726 et seq. If the permittee elects to terminate his or her permit at any time during the annual permit term or if the permittee fails to renew his or her annual permit, the Department shall refund the deposit less any outstanding obligation owed to the Department pursuant to Sections 726 et seq. 
(Added by Ord. 170-03, File No. 021726, App. 7/3/2003)
SEC. 726.5.  INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR ANNUAL PERMIT HOLDER.
	(a)	Each annual permittee shall maintain in full force and effect throughout the term of the permit, an insurance policy or policies issued by an insurance company or companies satisfactory to the City's Controller and Risk Manager. Policy or policies shall afford insurance covering all operations, vehicles, and employees, as follows: 
		(1)	Workers' compensation with employers' liability limits not less than $1,000,000 each accident.
		(2)	Commercial general liability insurance with limits not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage, including contractual liability, personal injury, explosion, collapse, and underground (xcu), products, and completed operations, and 
		(3)	Business automobile liability insurance with limits not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage, including owned, nonowned, and hired auto coverage, as applicable. 
	(b)	Said policy or policies shall include the City and its officers and employees jointly and severally as additional insureds, shall apply as primary insurance, shall stipulate that no other insurance effected by the City will be called on to contribute to a loss covered thereunder, and shall provide for severability of interests. Said policy or policies shall provide that an act or omission of one insured, which would void or otherwise reduce coverage, shall not reduce or void the coverage as to any other insured. Said policy or policies shall afford full coverage for any claims based on acts, omissions, injury, or damage which occurred or arose, or the onset of which occurred or arose, in whole or in part, during the policy period. Said policy or policies shall be endorsed to provide 30 calendar days advance written notice of cancellation or any material change to the Department. 
	(c)	Should any of the required insurance be provided under a claims-made form, the insured annual permittee shall maintain such coverage continuously throughout the term of the permit to the effect that, should occurrences during the term of the permit give rise to claims made after expiration or termination of the permit, such claims shall be covered by such claims-made policies. 
	(d)	Such insurance shall in no way relieve or decrease annual permittee's obligation to indemnify the City under Section 724.9.
	(e)	Certificates of insurance, in the form satisfactory to the Department, evidencing all coverages above, shall be furnished to or maintained on file with the Department before issuance of an annual permit, with complete copies of policies furnished promptly upon the Department's request. 
(Added by Ord. 170-03, File No. 021726, App. 7/3/2003)
SEC. 726.6.  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
	(a)	In addition to the provisions of Sections 726 et seq., mobile storage container occupancy of the public right-of-way shall be subject to Sections 724.1(f), 724.2, 724.5, 724.9, and 725.6 of this Code. 
	(b)	Mobile storage containers shall be completely covered at all times while being transported through City streets.
	(c)	It shall be the responsibility of the annual permittee to keep the exterior of his or her mobile storage container clean and free of graffiti at all times. 
	(d)	Notwithstanding any other applicable provisions of this Code, the Director of Public Works is authorized to order the immediate removal of a mobile storage container when, in his or her opinion, the storage container constitutes a safety hazard or public nuisance, or when the presence of an emergency requires removal. After the Director's notification of the removal order, the responsible annual permit holder or person shall immediately remove the storage container from the street. If the permittee or person does not remove the storage container immediately, the Director may order the Department of Public Works to remove the container. The permittee or person shall pay to the City the costs of removal. If a permittee does not pay such cost, the Director shall deduct said cost from the permittee's deposit. No mobile storage container shall be placed at that location until the conditions, which have caused the removal order, shall have been abated to the satisfaction of said Director. In addition, any use of the mobile storage containers that is inconsistent with Sections 726 et seq. shall be grounds for immediate removal. 
	(e)	A person who is in wilful noncompliance with Sections 726 et seq. shall not apply for nor be issued an annual mobile storage container permit or an individual location permit unless the Director, by written authorization, grants a waiver to this prohibition. Wilful noncompliance shall include, without limitation, deliberate acts that result in failure to: (1) satisfy any requirements, terms, or conditions of Sections 726 et seq., or the orders, policies, regulations, rules, or standard plans and specifications of the Department or (2) pay any outstanding assessments, fees, or penalties set forth in Sections 726 et seq. that have been finally determined by the City or a court of competent jurisdiction. 
(Added by Ord. 170-03, File No. 021726, App. 7/3/2003)
SEC. 726.7.  ORDERS AND REGULATIONS.
	The Director may adopt such orders, policies, regulations, rules, or standard plans and specifications as he or she deems necessary in order to preserve and maintain the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience. Such orders, policies, regulations, or rules may include, but are not limited to, permit application materials, placement of and information contained on signs, site conditions, accessibility of sidewalks and streets. When such orders, policies, regulations, or rules will affect the operations and enforcement of the Department of Parking and Traffic, the Director of the Department of Public Works shall consult with and provide an opportunity to comment to the Director of the Department of Parking and Traffic prior to adoption of such orders, policies, regulations, or rules. 
(Added by Ord. 170-03, File No. 021726, App. 7/3/2003)
SEC. 726.8.  SEVERABILITY.
	In adopting this Ordinance, the Board of Supervisors does not intend to regulate or affect the rights or authority of the Federal or State government to do those things that are required, directed, or expressly authorized by Federal or State law or administrative regulation. Further, in adopting this Ordinance, the Board of Supervisors does not intend to prohibit that which is prohibited by Federal or State law or administrative regulation. In the event that a court or agency of competent jurisdiction holds that Federal or State law, rule or regulation invalidates any clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of Sections 726 et seq. or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, it is the intent of the Board of Supervisors that the court or agency sever such clause, sentence, paragraph, or section so that the remainder of Sections 726 et seq. shall remain in effect. 
(Added by Ord. 170-03, File No. 021726, App. 7/3/2003)
SEC. 727.  DRIFTING OR BLOWING OF SAND OR DIRT DECLARED TO BE A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
	Sand or dirt drifting or being blown upon the streets or sidewalks or upon the improved private property of any community, neighborhood or a considerable portion thereof, within the City and County, is hereby declared to be a menace to persons, property and/or vehicular traffic and a public nuisance. The Director of Public Works may enforce and abate nuisances under this Section in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Community Preservation and Blight Reduction Act, Chapter 80 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, including, but not limited to, its provisions for notice, abatement, penalties, cost recovery, and debt collection.
(Amended by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 728.  RESERVED.
(Repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 729.  RESERVED.
(Repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011) 
SEC. 730.  RESERVED.
(Repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 731.  RESERVED.
(Repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 732.  RESERVED.
(Repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 733.  RESERVED.
(Repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 734.  RESERVED.
(Repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 735.  BLIGHTED VACANT LOTS AS CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
	(a)	Definitions. For purposes of this Section, each of the following terms shall have the following meaning: 
		(1)	"Blighted Vacant Lot" means property that:
			(A)	contains no buildings or structures that are occupied, inhabited, used or secured so that the public may not gain entry without consent of the owner; and 
			(B)	has any accumulation of filth, garbage, decaying animal or vegetable matter, waste paper, weeds, vegetation overgrowth, dead or decaying trees, litter, trash, unsanitary debris, waste material, animal or human excrement, toxic or otherwise hazardous liquids, substances and/or material residue, residue from the burning of combustible materials or discarded household, industrial or mechanical materials, or is otherwise not kept in a clean and sanitary condition. 
		(2)	"City" means the City and County of San Francisco.
		(3)	"Director" means the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
		(4)	"Property Owner" means the owner of record of the property as set forth in the most current records of the Tax Assessor, or the owner's authorized agent. 
	(b)	Declaration of Nuisance. Blighted vacant lots are hereby declared a public nuisance subject to abatement by the Director of Public Works in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Community Preservation and Blight Reduction Act, Chapter 80 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, including, but not limited to, its provisions for notice, abatement, penalties, cost recovery, and debt collection.
	(c)	Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for a property owner to maintain a blighted vacant lot in violation of this Section. 
(Added by Ord. 265-04, File No. 041178, App. 11/4/2004; amended by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 735.1.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 265-04, File No. 041178, App. 11/4/2004; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 735.2.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 265-04, File No. 041178, App. 11/4/2004; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 735.3.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 265-04, File No. 041178, App. 11/4/2004; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 735.4.  RESERVED.
(Added by Ord. 265-04, File No. 041178, App. 11/4/2004; repealed by Ord. 77-11, File No. 110281, App. 5/12/2011, Eff. 6/11/2011)
SEC. 759.  TRANSPORTATION OF SAND OVER PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED.
	It shall be unlawful for any person to use any cart, wagon or other vehicle for the purpose of transporting sand, earth or rock along or over any public street, unless such vehicle be so constructed as to prevent the deposit of the contents thereof, in whole or in part, in or upon any public street along or over which such vehicle may be driven. 
SEC. 760.  PERMIT REQUIRED  REVOCATION.
	It shall be unlawful for any person to use any vehicle for any of the aforesaid purposes set forth in Section 759 of this Article, without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Department of Public Works, which permit may be revoked at any time by said Department of Public Works for just and sufficient cause. 
SEC. 771.  DRAINING, ETC., OIL, GREASES, ETC., ON STREETS.
	It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation or agent or employee thereof, to drain or dump or deposit upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, or public place, or into any sump, gutter, catchbasin, drain, manhole, conduit, sewer, lake or waterway within the limits of the City and County of San Francisco, any tar, asphaltum, gasoline, lubricating oil, greases, waste oil from automobile, motorcycle or truck crankcases, or any by-product of petroleum. 
SEC. 776.  BLASTING  PERMIT REQUIRED.
	It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to explode or cause to be exploded any dynamite, gunpowder or other explosive material for the purpose of breaking up earth, rock, concrete or other material by means of blasting; or drill a hole or make a crevice for the purpose of inserting any explosive material for the purpose of blasting, without first obtaining from the Department of Public Works a permit to do so. 
(Amended by Ord. 150-61, App. 6/22/61)
SEC. 777.  BLASTING  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
	Application for a permit for blasting shall be made to the Central Permit Bureau on the form provided by that Bureau. 
(Amended by Ord. 150-61, App. 6/22/61)
SEC. 778.  BLASTING  FEE TO BE PAID; INSURANCE TO BE CARRIED.
	Prior to the receipt of a permit the applicant shall deposit with the Central Permit Bureau an amount sufficient to cover the cost of the fee required for such a permit, and shall file with the Central Permit Bureau the original or duplicate-original of a single limit liability insurance policy or policies as called for herein. 
	(a)	Fee. The amount of the fee and deposit which shall be paid by an applicant will be determined by the Department of Public Works and will be based upon an estimate of the total cost of processing the application and inspecting the work, including salary and overhead costs. A fee of $40 will be charged for processing the application, which amount will be retained by the Department in all cases. In addition to this fee an amount shall be deposited which will be sufficient to cover the estimated total cost of inspection services, including salary and overhead. At the termination of the blasting work, if the cost of inspection is less than the amount which was deposited for that purpose, the surplus shall be refunded to the permittee; and if the inspection costs exceed the amount deposited, the permittee shall be indebted to the Department of Public Works for this amount. 
	(b)	Insurance. The applicant shall procure and maintain during the life of the permit a policy or policies of public liability and property damage insurance issued by an insurer or insurers satisfactory to the Director of Public Works and in form approved by the City Attorney. The insurance policy or policies shall insure the applicant, the owners of the premises upon which the blasting is to take place, the contractor who shall actually engage in the blasting, and the officers, agents and employees of all such persons, the Director of Public Works, the City and County of San Francisco and its officers, employees and agents in their respective capacities. Said policy or policies shall insure against liability for damages or bodily injury, wrongful death and property damage directly or indirectly resulting from the nature of the work authorized under the permit, the blasting operations conducted under said permit, or the acts, omissions, operations or conduct of the applicant, the contractor, the owners of the premises upon which the blasting is to take place, the Director of Public Works, the City and County of San Francisco, and the acts or omissions, operations or conduct of the officers, employees and agents of any of the foregoing, directly or indirectly related to the work authorized by the permit and the blasting operations conducted thereunder, irrespective of whether fault is the basis of liability, and irrespective of whether any act, omission or conduct of the Director of Public Works, the City and County of San Francisco, its officers, agents and employees, connected or unconnected with the permit, the work or blasting operations authorized thereunder, is a condition or cause, contributory or otherwise, of the accident, injury, death or damage. Provided further, that said policy or policies of insurance shall insure against liability irrespective of whether the act, omission, conduct or operations of the applicant, the contractor, or the owner of the premises upon which the blasting is to take place, is merely a condition rather than a cause of the accident, injury, death or damage. 
		The amount of the single limit policy shall be determined for each permit by the Director of Public Works. 
		Each policy shall contain a paragraph reading as follows: 
"This policy is issued to comply, and it does comply, with the provisions of Section 778(b) of the San Francisco Municipal Code, Part II, Chapter X, Article 15. If any question shall hereafter arise concerning the risks intended to be insured against by this policy, said question shall be determined by reference to the language of said Section 778(b), which said provisions are hereby made part of this contract of insurance by reference thereto and incorporated herein as if fully set forth." 
		Each policy covering more than one insured shall contain the standard cross-liability provision. 
		The applicant shall file contemporaneously with execution of the permit, and thereafter shall maintain with the Department of Public Works, the policy or policies of insurance herein required, or duplicate originals thereof. Each said policy shall provide that no cancellation of or reduction in coverage shall become effective until at least 10 days after receipt by the Director of Public Works of written notice thereof sent registered mail, return receipt requested. If the life of the permit extends beyond the expiration date of any policy so filed, the renewal of such insurance shall be filed with the Department of Public Works at least 10 days before such expiration. 
	(c)	Indemnification. The applicant shall take and assume all responsibility for the work and the blasting operations authorized by the permit. As between the applicant and the City and County of San Francisco, the applicant shall bear all losses and damages directly or indirectly resulting to the City or others on account of the character or performance of the work and the blasting operations authorized by the permit, unforeseen difficulties, accidents or any other causes whatsoever. 
		The applicant shall assume the defense of and indemnify and save harmless the Director of Public Works, the City and County of San Francisco, and its officers and employees, from all claims, loss, damage, liability and injury of every kind, nature or description, directly or indirectly resulting from the nature of the work or the blasting operations authorized by the permit or in any way arising out of the permit, the issuance thereof, or the work or blasting operations authorized thereunder, irrespective of whether fault is the basis of liability or claim, and irrespective of whether any act, omission or conduct of the Director of Public Works, the City and County of San Francisco, or its officers, agents and employees, connected with the permit, or the work or blasting operations authorized under the permit, is a condition of or cause, contributory or otherwise, of the claim, loss, damage, liability or injury. Provided further, that such indemnification shall be irrespective of whether the act, omission or conduct of the applicant is merely a condition, rather than a cause, of the claim, loss, damage, liability or injury. 
(Amended by Ord. 150-61, App. 6/22/61; Ord. 401-87, App. 9/25/87)
SEC. 779.  BLASTING  USE OF EXPLOSIVES.
	In addition to the applicable requirements of the California Health and Safety Code, the Safety Orders issued by the Division of Industrial Safety, Department of Industrial Relations of California, or any other applicable State or City and County laws or regulations, the following regulations shall be complied with: 
	(a)	Blasting operations shall be conducted only during the hours determined by the Department and specified on the permit.
	(b)	The type of explosive material to be used shall be approved by the Department and specified on the permit.
	(c)	Only electric blasting caps shall be used.
	(d)	When directed by the Department a protective mat shall be used to cover the explosive areas.
	(e)	The Department reserves the right to halt any blasting operation when, in the opinion of the Department representative, such operation is not under the supervision of a competent person having the abilities which qualify him to safely perform the work. 
(Added by Ord. 150-61, App. 6/22/61)
SEC. 780.  BLASTING  MONEY DEPOSITED TO DEFRAY INSPECTION COSTS.
	All moneys paid for inspection services to the Department of Public Works under the provisions of Section 778 shall be deposited with the Treasurer to the credit of the appropriation for "Engineering Inspection." 
(Added by Ord. 150-61, App. 6/22/61)
SEC. 783.  PROPERTY BELOW GRADE  BARRIERS REQUIRED.
	Every person, firm or corporation owning or having control of any premises fronting on any public street, and below the grade thereof, must, within five days after notice from the Director of Public Works, requiring the owner or person having control of such premises so to do, erect, without cost or expense to the City and County, a suitable barrier or barricade, upon the inner line of the sidewalk in front of such premises. 
SEC. 784.  LIGHTS AND BARRIERS IN STREETS WHEN REQUIRED.
	Every person, firm or corporation, including the City and County of San Francisco, under whose immediate direction or authority, either as principal, contractor, or employer, any portion of any public street, park or way may be made dangerous, must erect and so long as the danger may continue maintain around the portion of such street, park or way so made dangerous, a substantial barrier and cause to be maintained at both ends of such barrier and at such other portions thereof as may be deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works during every night from sunset until daylight, lighted lanterns and flares. 
	Said barrier shall also be marked, designated or delineated by a reflector or reflectors or other device or devices which shall properly warn persons of said dangerous condition in the event of failure of the lighted lanterns or flares to operate properly, or when the use of said lighted lanterns or flares be prohibited during periods of dimout or blackout required of the general public. The type, character and number of said reflectors or devices shall be designated and approved by the Director of Public Works provided, however, that whenever the City and County of San Francisco or any of its departments or agencies is having work performed under contract the obligation of maintaining barriers, lights, flares, reflectors or other warning devices shall rest upon the contractor and not upon the City and County of San Francisco, its agencies or departments. 
SEC. 786.  STREET ENCROACHMENT PERMIT.
	No revocable permit for an encroachment on a public street or place as defined in Section 244 of this Code authorized by resolution of the Board of Supervisors shall be issued unless application therefor is made to the Director of Public Works and a processing fee, in the amount of $800 shall have been paid; provided, however, that the Board of Supervisors may waive payment of the fee provided for herein if it finds that a benefit will accrue to the public from a proposed encroachment. 
	Annually, on or before the fifteenth day of May in each year, the Controller shall determine and report to the Board of Supervisors an estimate of the average unit cost to be incurred by departments, boards and commissions of the City and County in processing said applications and in issuing said permits for the ensuing fiscal year. The Board of Supervisors may thereupon by resolution revise the amount of the fee heretofore fixed for said permits. 
(Added by Ord. 27-75, App. 2/5/75; amended by Ord. 401-87, App. 9/25/87)
SEC. 786.1.  CONTENT OF APPLICATIONS.
	The content of applications shall be in accordance with the policies, rules and regulations of the Director of Public Works. All applications shall be on forms prescribed therefor and shall contain or be accompanied by all information required to assure the presentation of pertinent facts for proper consideration of the case and for the permanent record. The applicant may be required to file with his application the information needed for the preparation and mailing of notices as specified in Section 786.4. 
(Added by Ord. 27-75, App. 2/5/75)
SEC. 786.2.  REPORTS.
	The Director of Public Works shall forward copies of the application for a revocable permit for an encroachment on a public street or place to the Director of Planning, the Director of Property, the Chief of the Police Department, the Chief of the Fire Department, the General Manager of the Municipal Railway, the Art Commission, and to the City Engineer. The Director of Public Works shall request a report from each of the listed departments concerning the effect of the proposed encroachment in relation to their duties and responsibilities. The completed reports shall be returned to the Director of Public Works within 60 days of the receipt of the copies of the application by the listed departments. The departments listed above may request one extension of time not to exceed 30 days from the Director of Public Works, which extension of time shall be granted. 
(Added by Ord. 27-75, App. 2/5/75)
SEC. 786.3.  SCHEDULE OF HEARINGS.
	Upon receipt of the reports from the departments listed in Section 786.2, regarding an application for a revocable permit for an encroachment on a public street or place, the Director of Public Works shall set a time and place for a hearing thereon within a reasonable period, not to exceed 90 days from the date on which the application is made to the Director of Public Works. The Director of Public Works shall be granted an additional period of 30 days from the date on which the application is made to hold the public hearing if a time extension has been requested as provided in Section 756.2 of this ordinance. 
(Added by Ord. 27-75, App. 2/5/75)
SEC. 786.4.  NOTICE OF HEARING.
	Notice of time, place and purpose of the hearing on an application for a revocable permit for an encroachment on a public street or place shall be given by the Director of Public Works as follows: 
		(1)	By mail, not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing, to the applicant or other person or agency making the application.
		(2)	By mail, not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing, to the owners of all real property within 300 feet of all exterior boundaries of the proposed encroachment, using for this purpose the names and addresses of the owners as shown on the latest city-wide assessment roll in the office of the Tax Collector. Failure to send notice by mail to any such property owner where the address of such owners is not shown on such assessment roll shall not invalidate any proceedings in connection with such application. 
		(3)	By posting, not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing in a public place near the boundaries of the proposed encroachment.
		(4)	Such other notice as the Director of Public Works shall deem appropriate.
(Added by Ord. 27-75, App. 2/5/75)
SEC. 786.5.  CONDUCT OF HEARINGS.
	(a)	Reports. The reports of the departments listed in Section 786.2 shall be submitted at the hearing on an application for a revocable permit for an encroachment on a public street or place. 
	(b)	Record. A record shall be kept of the pertinent information presented at the hearing on any application for a revocable permit for an encroachment on a public street or place, and such record shall be maintained as part of the permanent public records of the Department of Public Works. 
	(c)	Continuances. The Director of Public Works shall determine the instances in which cases scheduled for hearing may be continued or taken under advisement. In such cases, new notice need not be given provided the date of any further hearing is announced at the previously scheduled hearing. 
(Added by Ord. 27-75, App. 2/5/75)
SEC. 786.6.  RECOMMENDATION.
	The Director of Public Works shall forward to the Board of Supervisors a recommendation for approval, disapproval or modification, including applicable conditions, of an application for a revocable permit for an encroachment of a public street or place. The record of the hearing thereon and the list of all parties notified of the hearing shall be attached to the Director's recommendation. Such recommendation and attachments shall be filed with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors within 30 days after the hearing was closed. 
(Added by Ord. 27-75, App. 2/5/75)
SEC. 786.7.  PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY ASSESSMENT FEE FOR STREET ENCROACHMENTS.
	(a)	The Board of Supervisors reserves the right to exact a public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee for the use of the street or other public right-of-way space permitted under the provisions of Sections 786 et seq. 
	(b)	In accordance with Subsection (a) the public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee for street encroachments, whether permitted or unpermitted, shall be an annual fee of $3.00 per square foot of occupancy of the street or other public right-of-way space. For purposes of calculating the assessment fee, the Department shall charge no less than $100.00 per pear even though the calculated square footage charge for the encroachment may result in a smaller assessment fee. 
	(c)	If the Board of Supervisors has imposed an annual public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee for a street encroachment permit, the permittee shall pay the greater of the Board-adopted fee or the assessment fee set forth in Subsection (b). 
	(d)	The public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee shall be subject to the review and adjustment procedures as set forth in Sections 2.1.1 et seq. 
	(e)	The public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee shall not be charged to any federal, state or local governmental agencies, commission, or departments. 
	(f)	Notwithstanding Subsection (b), no public right-of-way occupancy assessment fee shall be charged against the owner of a property for elements installed as a requirement under Planning Code Section 138.1. 
(Added by Ord. 179-05, File No. 050986, App. 7/29/2005; Ord. 310-10, File No. 101194, App. 12/16/2010)
SEC. 787.  STREET VACATIONS.
	(a)	Upon petition to the Board of Supervisors for any street vacation, the Board of Supervisors will refer the request to the Director of Public Works for investigation and recommendation. The street vacation procedure shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Streets and Highways Code of the State of California and such rules and conditions adopted by the Board of Supervisors. 
	(b)	The Board of Supervisors finds that unimproved streets in the Bernal Heights area are an important open space resource to the citizens in the area where the lots are small, the streets are narrow and space is at a premium. Therefore the Board of Supervisors declares that it is the policy of the City and County of San Francisco not to vacate unimproved streets and sell, transfer, or relinquish its interest in the underlying property to private ownership in the Bernal Heights area bounded by Army Street on the north, Mission Street on the west, Interstate 280 on the south and Highway 101 on the east except not to include Esmeralda Avenue, between Brewster Street and Holladay Avenue. These streets shall be kept as open space, unless the Board of Supervisors finds that the streets are needed for public passage and proposes to improve and accept them for the same purpose. 
(Added by Ord. 390-81, App. 7/3/81; amended by Ord. 225-87, App. 6/19/87)
SEC. 788.  FEES.
	(a)	Fees, payable to the Department of Public Works, shall be assessed for investigating and processing the street vacation request filed under this Code. Said fees shall consist of an initial payment of $2,500, paid at the time of filing an application for street vacation, plus an additional sum needed to equal the actual cost to Department of Public Works of checking the maps, plans and reports, and conducting an investigation incidental thereto. Nonprofit organizations with tax exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code, that have filed applications on or after January 1, 1985, shall be exempt from payment of the initial $2,500 payment where the street vacation is necessary for the development of senior citizen housing. 
	(b)	Payment of fees charged under this Code does not waive the fee requirements of other ordinances and rules and regulations pursuant thereto. 
	(c)	There is hereby created a Street Vacation Fund wherein all funds received under the provisions of this Section shall be deposited. All expenditures from the Fund shall be for engineering or technical investigations and equipment directly related to the investigation and processing of the street vacation request filed under this Code, and all such expenditures are hereby appropriated for said purposes. 
(Amended by Ord. 432-86, App. 11/7/86)
SEC. 789 - 789.7  COMMEMORATIVE STREET PLAQUE ORDINANCE  
SEC. 789.  TITLE.
	These Sections 789 through 789.7 shall be known as the Commemorative Street Plaque Ordinance. 
(Added by Ord. 149-96, App. 4/17/96)
SEC. 789.1.  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
	The Board of Supervisors hereby finds and declares that: 
	(a)	The City and County of San Francisco has a unique and important history that should be preserved and commemorated for residents and visitors. The contributions of certain sites, events, and people to the history of the City should be recognized. 
	(b)	One method of preserving and commemorating such historical sites, events, and people shall be the placement of commemorative plaques upon public streets and places. Such plaques shall play an important role in identifying locations of historical interest to residents and visitors. 
(Added by Ord. 149-96, App. 4/17/96)
SEC. 789.2.  COMMEMORATIVE STREET PLAQUE PLACEMENT PROCEDURES.
	This Section shall govern the procedures governing commemoration of historical sites, events and persons in locations upon a public street or place as defined in Section 244 of this Code. 
	(a)	The Board of Supervisors may, by resolution, designate a specific location on a public street or place to commemorate a site, event or person of historical interest to San Francisco. 
	(b)	Any person seeking to commemorate a site, event or person of historical interest to San Francisco on a specific location on a public street or place shall file an application with the Department of Public Works. Such application shall be filed upon forms prescribed by the Department, include all information required by the Department and be accompanied by all required fees set by the Department. 
(Added by Ord. 149-96, App. 4/17/96)
SEC. 789.3.  SCHEDULE, NOTICE AND CONDUCT OF HEARING.
	(a)	The Department shall set a time and place for a hearing thereon for a date not to exceed 90 days from the date on which the complete application was received by the Department. 
	(b)	Notice of time, place and purpose of the hearing on the application for a commemorative plaque on a public street or place shall be as follows: 
		(1)	By mail, not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing, to the applicant(s).
		(2)	By mail, not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing, to the owners of all real property fronting the specific location and the owners of all real property on either side of the specific location requested for commemoration. The Department shall use the names and addresses of the owners as shown on the latest city- wide assessment roll in the office of the Tax Collector. 
		(3)	By posting, not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing, in a public place near the specific location requested for commemoration. 
		(4)	Such other notice as the Department shall deem appropriate.
	(c)	A record shall be kept of pertinent information presented at the hearing and such record shall be maintained as part of the permanent records of the Department. The Director of Public Works shall determine the instances in which applications scheduled for hearing may be continued. In such cases, new notice need not be given provided the date of any further hearing is announced at the previously scheduled hearing. 
(Added by Ord. 149-96, App. 4/17/96)
SEC. 789.4.  DESIGNATION BY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
	(a)	Within 30 days after close of the hearing, the Department shall forward the application, its own report and recommendation to the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors. The record of the hearing thereon and a list of all parties notified of the hearing shall be attached to the Department's recommendation. 
	(b)	The Board of Supervisors shall hold a public hearing on any proposal so transmitted. The Board may approve, disapprove or modify and approve, the designation of a specific location on a public street or place to commemorate a site, event or person of historical interest to San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 149-96, App. 4/17/96)
SEC. 789.5.  SITING AND DESIGN GUIDELINES.
	The Department shall develop siting criteria for the commemorative plaques and may adopt such criteria through departmental orders and/or regulations. The Department shall also develop design guidelines for the commemorative plaques after consulting with the Art Commission. 
(Added by Ord. 149-96, App. 4/17/96)
SEC. 789.6.  OFFICIAL AND COMMEMORATIVE MAPS.
	(a)	The Department shall be responsible for maintaining the official street map of the City and County of San Francisco.
	(b)	From time to time, the Department shall develop a map listing all sites designated as commemorative sites.
(Added by Ord. 149-96, App. 4/17/96)
SEC. 789.7.  FEES.
	The Department shall determine the amount of a fee necessary to compensate the City for processing and administering an application for a commemorative plaque. The fee shall be deposited into the Engineering Inspection Fund and pay for the time and materials required to process the application, based upon the estimated actual costs to perform the work, including the costs of the Department of Public Works, the City Attorney and the Board of Supervisors. 
(Added by Ord. 149-96, App. 4/17/96)
SEC. 790.  SLIP RESISTANT MANHOLE, VAULT, AND SUB-SIDEWALK BASEMENT COVERS, GRILLES, GRATES, OR OTHER LIDS ON THE PUBLIC SIDEWALK.
	(a)	Requirements. Every person, firm or corporation, including the City and County of San Francisco, owning or having control of any manhole, vault, or sub-sidewalk basement cover, grille, grate, or other lid on the public sidewalk must comply with the Department of Public Works' slip resistant regulations for such surfaces and covers. Said regulations shall be based on the U.S. Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board's slip resistant recommendations or California Code of Regulations Title 24, whichever is more restrictive. The Director of Public Works shall adopt a slip resistant standard(s) for such surfaces and covers after conducting a public hearing on the recommended standard or standards. For surfaces and covers that pre-date 1920, the Director shall develop special standards that encourage, to the maximum extent feasible, preservation or adaptive reuse of such surfaces and covers. The standards for these surfaces and covers may deviate from the standards set forth in this subsection and shall include, but not be limited to, measures to preserve foundry marks, names of public or private companies associated with the surface or cover, dates, or other historical identifiers; provided, however, that in all instances the standards shall ensure public safety. The Director shall issue a Departmental Order specifying the standard or standards adopted pursuant to this section. Covers for sewer vents and traps that comply with the Plumbing Code are exempt from section 790. 
	(b)	Notice of violation. The Director of Public Works shall have authority to enforce this section. Upon the Director's determination that a person has violated any provisions of this section, the Director shall serve notice to the owner to abate the violation within thirty (30) days. The Director's notice of violation shall be a written, electronic, or facsimile communication and shall specify the manner in which the violation shall be remedied. 
	(c)	Hearing. The owner shall have seven (7) days from the date of the notice to request in writing a hearing before the Director to contest the notice of violation. If the owner fails to request a hearing within seven days, the Director's determination of violation shall be presumed final. At the hearing, the owner shall be entitled to present evidence that any manhole, vault or sub-sidewalk basement cover, grille, grate, or other lid on the public sidewalk complies with the applicable Department of Public Works slip resistant standard. The determination of the Director after the hearing shall be final and not appealable. 
	(d)	Abatement. After notification by the Director, the owner shall obtain applicable Permit(s), and remove and replace the non-compliant cover(s) or surface(s) within thirty (30) days. The Director may extend the time for the owner to remove and replace such cover or surface in his or her discretion. 
	(e)	Failure to Abate Violation. If the owner fails to abate any violation pursuant to the Director's notice, the Director is empowered to abate the violation in the manner in which the Director deems expedient and appropriate. The owner shall compensate the Department of Public Works for any costs associated with abating the violation. In addition, the Director may assess additional penalties, costs and abatement charges in his or her discretion. 
	(f)	Administrative Penalties. The administrative penalties assessed pursuant to subsection (e) shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) per day, per violation commencing with the first day of the violation. In assessing the amount of the administrative penalty, the Director may consider any one or more of the following: the nature and seriousness of the violation, the number of violations, the length of time over which the violation continues to occur, and the willfulness of the violator's misconduct. 
	(g)	Enforcement Costs. In addition to the administrative penalty assessed pursuant to subsection (f), the Director may assess enforcement costs to cover the reasonable costs incurred in enforcing the administrative penalty, including reasonable attorney's fees. 
	(h)	Civil Penalties. The Director may call upon the City Attorney to maintain an action for injunction to cause the correction or abatement of the violation, and for assessment and recovery of a civil penalty and reasonable attorney's fees for such violation. Any person who violates this section may be liable for a civil penalty, not to exceed $500 for each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, which penalty shall be assessed and recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the people of the City by the City Attorney in any court of competent jurisdiction. In assessing the amount the civil penalty, the court may consider any one or more of the following: the nature and seriousness of the violation, the number of violations, the length of time over which the violation continues to occur, the willfulness of the violator's misconduct, and the defendant's assets, liabilities, and net worth. The City Attorney may also seek recovery of the attorney's fees and costs incurred in bringing a civil action pursuant to this action. 
	(i)	Severability. In adopting this section 790, the Board of Supervisors does not intend to regulate or affect the rights or authority of the Federal or State government to do those things that are required, directed, or expressly authorized by Federal or State law or administrative regulation. Further, in adopting this Ordinance, the Board of Supervisors does not intend to prohibit that which is prohibited by Federal or State law or administrative regulation. In the event that a court or agency of competent jurisdiction holds that Federal or State law, rule or regulation invalidates any clause, sentence, paragraph, or subsection of section 790 or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, it is the intent of the Board of Supervisors that the court or agency sever such clause, sentence paragraph, or subsection so that the remainder of sections 790 shall remain in effect. 
(Added by Ord. 30-04, File No. 030677, App. 3/2/2004)
SEC. 791.  PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS GIFT ACCEPTANCE AND PUBLIC DEDICATION.
	(a)	Definitions.
		"Immediate Property Frontage" refers to that portion of the public right-of-way from the back of curb to the adjacent property line for the length of the entire property.
		"Public Improvements" shall be defined as physical improvements to the public right-of-way intended to promote pedestrian and bicycle safety, to provide increased sidewalk area for pedestrians, and to promote environmentally sound street design, and to enhance the aesthetic appeal of streets. Such improvements include, but shall not be limited to, sidewalk widening, sidewalk widening at corners, medians, raised pedestrian crossings, and bicycle facilities, and are generally described in the Better Streets Plan or its successor document, Neighborhood Plans, or neighborhood streetscape plans.
	(b)	Gift Acceptance of Public Improvements. Notwithstanding the limit on administrative acceptance of public gifts in Administrative Code Section 10.100-305, the Director of Public Works is authorized to accept as gifts on behalf of the City and County of San Francisco certain Public Improvements within the Department's permitting and maintenance jurisdiction subject to the limitations as set forth in this Section 791. Such gift acceptance is subject to all other laws, rules, and regulations governing acceptance of public gifts. All such gifts shall be made by an irrevocable offer of dedication.
	(c)	Location of Public Improvements and Consistency with Applicable Plans.
		(1)	The subject Public Improvements shall be located on the public right-of-way outside of the Immediate Property Frontage of the property owner and be consistent with the Better Streets Plan or applicable Neighborhood Plan or neighborhood streetscape plan. Generally, such Public Improvements shall be within 500 feet of the Immediate Property Frontage.
		(2)	Notwithstanding the locational requirement of Subsection (c)(1) above, a gift of Public Improvements also may be made if the owner constructs a sidewalk bulb-out within the Immediate Property Frontage. Such sidewalk bulb-out shall satisfy all other provisions of this Section. Any such gift shall be applicable only to that additional portion of sidewalk necessary to construct the sidewalk bulb-out in relation to the: (a) then existing official sidewalk width if the sidewalk width remains unchanged within the Immediate Property Frontage or (b) new official sidewalk width if the sidewalk width within the Immediate Property Frontage has been expanded. With the exception of that additional portion of sidewalk necessary to construct the sidewalk bulb-out as set forth above, the property owner shall be solely responsible for such Improvements in accordance with Public Works Code Section 706. In such instances, the Department of Public Works official maps shall delineate the division of responsibility between the City and the property owner.
		(3)	If the subject Public Improvements specified in Subsection (c)(1) result in expansion of sidewalk width outside of the Immediate Property Frontage and such sidewalk improvements meet all the standard City requirements for sidewalk design and materials, then while the Department may accept such Public Improvements as a gift, then the fronting owner shall be solely responsible for such Improvements in accordance with Public Works Code Section 706.
		(4)	Notwithstanding the requirement of Subsection (c)(3) above, a gift of Public Improvements may include a sidewalk bulb-out outside of the Immediate Property Frontage. Any such gift shall be applicable only to that additional portion of sidewalk necessary to construct the sidewalk bulb-out in relation to the: (a) then existing official sidewalk width if the sidewalk width remains unchanged outside of the Immediate Property Frontage or (b) new official sidewalk width if the sidewalk width outside the Immediate Property Frontage has been expanded and such sidewalk improvements meet all the standard City requirements for sidewalk design and materials. With the exception of that additional portion of sidewalk necessary to construct the sidewalk bulb-out as set forth above, the fronting owner shall be solely responsible for such Improvements in accordance with Public Works Code Section 706. In such instances, the Department of Public Works official maps shall delineate the division of responsibility between the City and the fronting owner. 
		(5)	If the subject Public Improvements to be located on the sidewalk portion of the public right-of-way outside of the Immediate Property Frontage of the property owner are not improvements that meet all the standard City requirements for design and materials or are comprised of any form of encroachment, including street furniture, then the Director, in his or her discretion, may decline to accept all or a portion of such Public Improvements as a gift. In such instances, the Director may process the permitting and approval of such Public Improvements in accordance with applicable provisions of the Public Works Code and may issue a permit or permits to: (a) the property owner if the property owner assumes permit responsibility for the nonstandard design and materials or encroachments; (b) the fronting owner(s) if such fronting owner(s) consent to assume responsibility for the nonstandard design and materials or encroachments; or (c) both.
	(d)	Limitation of Gift Acceptance to Department of Public Works Jurisdiction. The Public Improvements subject to the gift acceptance shall be only those improvements within the Department's permitting and maintenance jurisdiction. Public Improvements that fall within the maintenance jurisdiction of other departments shall not be subject to the terms of this Section.
	(e)	Public Improvements Subject to All Other Applicable City Approvals. The Public Improvements shall be subject to all City Department reviews, approvals, and permitting that otherwise would apply to such projects.
	(f)	Departmental Approval by Street Improvement Permit. The Department shall approve such Public Improvements pursuant to a street improvement permit as set forth in Public Works Code Article 2.4 for accepted streets or Article 9 for unaccepted streets and said permit shall be accompanied by security as required by the Department. Said permit may be combined with other Departmental permits associated with the subject project.
	(g)	Gift to Include Cost of Maintenance. The gift for such Public Improvements shall be accompanied by a maintenance endowment of at least 20% of the estimated cost of construction of the Improvements as determined by the City Engineer; provided however, that the Director may reduce the cost of this endowment, but in no case shall the reduction be less than 10% of the cost of construction of the Improvements. The Department shall deposit all such maintenance funds into a public improvement gift maintenance account.
	(h)	Public Improvement Gift Maintenance Fund. There is hereby created a Public Improvement Gift Maintenance Fund wherein all funds received under the provisions of this Section shall be deposited. Said fund shall be a Category 8 fund in accordance with Administrative Code Section 10.100-1. All expenditures from the Fund shall be for administrative, engineering, legal, or technical work related to the maintenance of such improvements and equipment directly related to such maintenance, including but not limited to labor costs and any future construction associated with the Public Improvements. All such expenditures are hereby appropriated for said purposes.
	(i)	Acceptance and Dedication of Public Improvements. The Board of Supervisors delegates authority to the Director of Public Works to accept and dedicate the Public Improvements for public use, designate them for any or all public street and roadway purposes, and accept the Improvements for City maintenance and liability purposes once the City Engineer has determined that the Public Improvements have been constructed according to City standard and the satisfaction of the Department and are ready for their intended use.
	(j)	DPW Regulations. In addition to the requirements set forth in this Section, the Director may adopt such orders, policies, regulations, rules, or standard plans and specifications as he or she deems necessary in order to preserve and maintain the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience. Such orders, policies, regulations, or rules may include, but are not limited to, permit application materials, site conditions, accessibility of sidewalks and streets, submission of as-built plans as a precondition to acceptance. When such orders, policies, regulations or rules will affect the operations and enforcement of the Municipal Transportation Agency, the Director of the Department of Public Works shall consult with and provide an opportunity to comment to the Municipal Transportation Agency prior to adoption of such orders, policies, regulations, or rules.
(Added by Ord. 114-13, File No. 130251, App. 6/28/2013, Eff. 7/28/2013)
ARTICLE 16:
URBAN FORESTRY ORDINANCE 
Sec. 800.Title.Sec. 801.Purpose.Sec. 802.Definitions.Sec. 802.1.Additional definitions.Sec. 803.Urban Forestry Council; Additional Powers and Duties.Sec. 804.Jurisdiction.Sec. 805.Responsibility for Maintenance of Street Trees.Sec. 806.Planting and Removal of Street Trees.Sec. 807.Department of Public Works Urban Forestry Program; Powers and Duties.Sec. 808.Protection of Trees and Landscape Material.Sec. 809.Hazard Trees; Abatement.Sec. 810.Landmark Trees.Sec. 810A.Significant Trees.Sec. 810B.Sidewalk Landscape Permits.Sec. 811.Penalties for Violation of Ordinance.Sec. 812.Enforcement of Ordinance; Designated Employees.Sec. 813.Urban Forest Management Plan.Sec. 814.Severability.
SEC. 800.  TITLE.
	This ordinance shall be known as the San Francisco Urban Forestry Ordinance. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95)
SEC. 801.  PURPOSE.
	The San Francisco Urban Forestry Ordinance is enacted to further the following public purposes: 
	(a)	To realize the optimum public benefits of trees on the City's streets and public places, including favorable modification of microclimates, abatement of air and noise pollution, reduction of soil erosion and runoff, enhancement of the visual environment, and promotion of community pride; 
	(b)	To integrate street planting and maintenance with other urban elements and amenities, including but not limited to utilities, vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and enhancement of views and solar access; 
	(c)	To promote efficient, cost effective management of the City's urban forest by coordinating public and private efforts within a comprehensive and professional management system; 
	(d)	To reduce the public hazard, nuisance, and expense occasioned by improper tree selection, planting, and maintenance;
	(e)	To provide for the creation of an equitable, sustained, and reliable means of funding urban-forest management throughout the City; 
	(f)	To create and maintain a unified urban-forest resource, enhancing the City's overall character and sense of place.
	(g)	To recognize that trees are an essential part of the City's aesthetic environment and that the removal of important trees should be addressed through appropriate public participation and dialogue, including the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code Sections 21000 et seq.). 
	(h)	To recognize that green spaces are vital to San Francisco's quality of life as they provide a range of environmental benefits and bring beauty to our neighborhoods and commercial districts. 
	(i)	To ensure that landscaping in sidewalk areas is properly constructed and maintained in order to maximize environmental benefits, protect public safety, and limit conflicts with infrastructure. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; amended by Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006; Ord. 121-06, File No. 060142, App. 6/14/2006) 
SEC. 802.  DEFINITIONS.
	Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, 
	(a)	"Administrative cost" shall mean 20 percent of the Department's actual replacement cost, or a minimum of $100, whichever is greater. 
	(b)	"City" shall mean the City and County of San Francisco.
	(c)	"Community Boards" of San Francisco shall mean the neighborhood mediation/dispute settlement service established under the auspices of The Community Board Program, Inc. 
	(d)	"Department" shall mean the Department of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco.
	(e)	"Director" shall mean the Director of the Department of Public Works or the Director's designee.
	(f)	"Ex officio" shall mean a current employee of any City department, or California or federal agency whose appointment to the Urban Forestry Council has been approved by the Director of the Department of the Environment. 
	(g)	"Injure" or "injury" shall mean any act which harms or damages a tree, including but not limited to impact, cutting, carving, painting, transplanting, or knocking over, and includes but is not limited to the following: injurious attachment of any rope, wire, nail, advertising poster, or other contrivance to any tree subject to the provisions of this Article; intentionally or negligently allowing any gaseous, liquid, or solid substance that is harmful to a tree to come into contact with a tree; setting fire or intentionally or negligently permitting any fire to burn when such fire or the heat therefrom will injure any part of any tree; pruning which in and of itself will kill or cause a tree to decline; or severing of all or part of a tree. 
	(h)	"In-lieu fee" shall mean a fee deposited into the Adopt-A-Tree Fund and imposed by the Director. The in-lieu fee shall be equal to the replacement value of a tree(s) to be removed or trees that have been destroyed or as otherwise specified in Section 811. In the case of trees required to be planted by Section 143 of the City Planning Code, yet excused under Section 143(d) of the Planning Code, the in-lieu fee shall be equal to the City's cost to plant and water a tree for three years. The minimum in lieu fee shall be $1,489.00. Beginning with fiscal year 2007-2008, this fee shall be reviewed and adjusted each year in accordance with the procedures set forth in Public Works Code Section 2.1.2. 
	(i)	"Interested San Francisco organization" shall mean a San Francisco organization or individual that has made a written request to the Department for notification of proposed tree removals in a specified area(s) or neighborhood(s). 
	(j)	"Landmark tree" shall mean a tree so designated pursuant to Section 810 of this Article.
	(k)	"Landscape material" shall mean any tree, shrub, groundcover or other plant.
	(l)	"Maintenance" shall mean those actions necessary to promote the life, growth, health, or beauty of a tree. Maintenance includes both routine and major activities. "Routine maintenance" shall include adequate watering to ensure the tree's growth and sustainability; weed control; removal of tree-well trash; staking; fertilizing; routine adjustment and timely removal of stakes, ties, tree guards, and tree grates; bracing; and sidewalk repairs related to the tree's growth or root system pursuant to Section 706 of this Code. "Major maintenance" shall include structural pruning as necessary to maintain public safety and to sustain the health, safety, and natural growth habit of the tree; pest and disease-management procedures as needed and in a manner consistent with public health and ecological diversity; replacement of dead or damaged trees. Pruning practices shall be in compliance with International Society of Aboriculture Best Management Practices and ANSI Pruning Standards, whichever is more protective of tree preservation. 
	(m)	"Median strip" shall mean the dividing area in the public way between opposing lanes of vehicular traffic.
	(n)	"Notice" shall mean written notice by personal delivery or by mailing, either by letter or postal card, postage prepaid to the last known address as the same appears on the City's most recent assessment rolls. 
	(o)	"Hazard tree" shall mean any tree that poses an imminent hazard to person or property. The Director may determine that a tree is a hazard if it or any part of it: (1) appears dead, dangerous, or likely to fall, even after proper maintenance activities are performed to eliminate dead or dangerous parts; (2) obstructs or damages a street, sidewalk, or other existing structure; (3) harbors a serious disease or infestation threatening the health of other trees; (4) interferes with vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or (5) poses any other significant hazard or potential hazard, as determined by the Director; provided, however, that feasible measures have been applied to abate any such hazard, such as applicable maintenance activities listed in Section 802(l) of this Article. The Director's determination shall be in writing. 
	(p)	"Person" shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or organization of any kind.
	(q)	"Planting" shall mean putting or setting into the ground or into a container to grow and irrigating until self-sufficient.
	(r)	"Removal" shall mean any intentional or negligent moving, carrying away, elimination or taking away of part or all of a tree.
	(s)	"Replacement value" shall mean the actual cost to the Department of replacing a tree or landscape material removed or destroyed with a comparable size and species of tree or with comparable landscape material. Certain trees or landscape material, because of their size, species or historical significance, cannot be replaced from available nursery stock. In such case, "replacement value" shall be determined pursuant to the valuation formula adopted by the International Society of Arboriculture, as amended from time to time, plus the Department's actual costs to replace the tree. "Replacement value" shall include the Department's administrative costs. 
	(t)	"Sidewalk" shall mean the area between the curbing and the abutting private property lot line, whether paved or unpaved, as legislated by the Board of Supervisors and as reflected in the Department's official maps. 
	(u)	"Significant Tree" shall mean a tree so defined in Section 810A of this Article.
	(v)	"Street" shall mean the vehicular travel-way portion of any public street, avenue, boulevard, lane, road, parkway, freeway, or other public way. 
	(w)	"Street tree" shall mean any tree growing within the public right-of-way, including unimproved public streets and sidewalks, and any tree growing on land under the jurisdiction of the Department. 
	(x)	"Tree" shall mean any large perennial plant having a woody trunk(s), branches, and leaves. Trees also shall include palm trees.
	(y)	"Urban forest" shall mean all trees on public streets and rights-of-way within the borders of the City and County of San Francisco, any trees growing on land subject to the jurisdiction of the Department, and any other trees subject to the provisions of this Article. 
	(z)	"Urban Forestry Council" shall mean the Urban Forestry Council as established under the Environment Code Chapter 12.
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; amended by Ord. 294-98, File No. 98-0991, Eff. 11/2/98; Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006; Ord. 193-06, File No. 060778, App. 7/21/2006) 
SEC. 802.1.  ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.
	Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. 
	(a)	"Climate appropriate" means plants, shrubs, ground covers, or tree species that meet at least one of the following conditions: 
		(1)	The species has a water use ranking of "low" or "very low" in Region 1 (North-Central Coast) as established in the California Department of Water Resources 2000 publication "Water Use Classification of Landscape Species" or subsequent editions as it may be updated; 
		(2)	The species has a water use ranking of "no water", "little water", or "little to moderate water" in the climate zone for the planting location as established in the Sunset Western Garden Book, Eighth Edition, published by Oxmoor House on February 1, 2007 or subsequent editions as it may be updated; 
		(3)	The plantings are part of an engineered stormwater management feature approved by the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to the San Francisco Stormwater Design Guidelines established by the Public Utilities Commission; 
		(4)	The Department of Public Works, the Recreation and Park Department, or the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission has determined that the species, when watered for sufficient plant health and appearance, is low water use based on the agency's experience with the species, and the agency has added the species to the Low Water Use and Climate Appropriate Plant List maintained by the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission; 
		(5)	The species appears on the San Francisco Street Tree Species List established by the Department of Public Works Bureau of Urban Forestry; 
		(6)	The planting is part of a species test approved by the Department of Public Works or the Recreation and Park Department; or
		(7)	The species has been permitted at the site by the Department of Public Works or the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission based on wet soil conditions stemming from proximity to naturally occurring water features such as a high water table, springs, ponds, lakes, creeks, and wetlands. 
(Added by Ord. 84-10, File No. 091453, App. 4/22/2010)
SEC. 803.  URBAN FORESTRY COUNCIL; ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
	(a)	The Urban Forestry Council shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Director or his designee on matters relating to this Article and to tree management in the City. The responsibilities of the Urban Forestry Council may include but shall not be limited to the following: 
		(1)	Studying the problems and determining the needs of the City concerning its street tree planting and maintenance programs, and advising the Director in this regard; 
		(2)	Preparing for the Director an annual report detailing the state of the urban forest;
		(3)	Recommending to the Director appropriate species of trees to be planted on City streets or other areas under the Department's jurisdiction; 
		(4)	Working with the Community Boards of San Francisco in developing guidelines, standards, and procedures for the mediation of conflicts between property owners over the protection of views, solar access, planting/removal of trees, and other tree-related issues; 
		(5)	Working with the Director concerning the maintenance of an Urban Forestry Management Plan;
		(6)	Developing and recommending for Board of Supervisors' adoption uniform criteria for designating "landmark" trees and uniform criteria, rules, and procedures for the removal of "landmark" trees pursuant to Section 810; 
		(7)	Making recommendations to the Director on appeals of applications for tree removal;
		(8)	Recommending to the Director information to be distributed to the public concerning the selection, planting, and maintenance of trees throughout the City; and 
		(9)	Recommending to the Director desirable City tree programs and activities, including legislation and funding mechanisms.
	(b)	The Urban Forestry Council shall perform such other duties assigned to it under the Municipal Codes.
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; amended by Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006)
SEC. 804.  JURISDICTION.
	(a)	Department's Jurisdiction. The Department shall have jurisdiction over the planning, planting, maintenance, and removal of trees in any street or other public right-of-way as defined in Section 244 of this Code; over any landscape material in any street median, center strip, or other landscaped portion of a public right-of-way; over trees and other landscape material in other public spaces under the jurisdiction of the Department; over hazard trees on private property as specified in Section 809 and 810A of this Article; over landmark trees as specified in Section 810; and over significant trees as specified in Section 810A. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; amended by Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006)
SEC. 805.  RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF STREET TREES.
	(a)	Responsibilities of Property Owners. Except as specified in Subsections 805(b) and (c) below, it shall be the duty of owners of lots or portions of lots immediately abutting on, fronting on or adjacent to any street tree to maintain such street tree. This duty shall include both routine and major maintenance of the street tree. It shall be the responsibility of all public agencies, including City, State and federal agencies, to maintain street trees abutting on such public agency's property in accordance with this Section. In addition, and in accordance with Section 706 of this Code, abutting property owners shall be responsible for the care and maintenance of the sidewalk and sidewalk areas adjacent to any street tree. 
	Any person who suffers injury or property damage as a legal result of the failure of the owner to so maintain a street tree, sidewalk and sidewalk areas shall have a cause of action for such injury or property damage against such property owner. In addition to its rights under Section 706 of this Code, the City and County of Sand Francisco shall have a cause of action for indemnity against such property owner for any damages the City may be required to pay as satisfaction of any judgment or settlement of any claim that results from injury to persons or property as a legal result of the failure of the owner to maintain a street tree in accordance with this Section. 
	The Department shall have available to interested persons, upon request, public pruning standards to ensure that street trees receive proper care. 
	(b)	Responsibilities of the Department. The Department may, at the Director's discretion, determine to undertake the regular routine and/or major maintenance of certain street trees or corridors of street trees to promote consistency in the maintenance of trees or in the public interest. Where the Department determines to undertake such regular maintenance of street trees, the Director shall specify in writing by Departmental Order those trees or corridors of trees for which it has undertaken maintenance responsibility and shall specify in writing whether the Department will be responsible for routine or major maintenance, or both. Such determinations by the Department shall be readily accessible to property owners and members of the public. Where the Department has undertaken certain maintenance responsibility for street trees in writing, the abutting property owner shall be relieved of responsibility for such street tree maintenance. 
	Where the Department assumes maintenance responsibilities after the effective date of this Article, it shall send written notice of that fact to the abutting property owner. 
	(c)	Street Tree Establishment and Replacement of Dead Street Trees.
		(1)	Establishment of Street Trees. The establishment period for newly planted street trees shall be three years from the date of planting. If the street tree is not adequately established at the end of this period, the Director shall treat this as an injury to the tree, as defined in Section 802(g), and may seek penalties for violation, as set forth in Section 811. The Director may establish rules, regulations, or any other form of written guidelines concerning standards for proper care and maintenance during the establishment period. 
		(2)	Replacement of Dead Street Trees. The permittee or agency responsible for a street tree shall replace a dead street tree within six months of the demise or removal of the tree. Removal of a dead street tree and planting of a replacement street tree shall be subject to all requirements set forth in this Article for removal and planting. The Director is authorized to waive this replacement requirement and may place conditions on any such waiver, which may include, but is not limited to, replacement planting at an alternate location or payment of the in-lieu fee. Any such waiver shall be in writing. 
	(d)	Department Inventory and Publication of Street Tree Responsibilities. The Department shall use its best efforts to maintain an inventory of all trees under its jurisdiction. 
	As of the effective date of this Article, the Department shall continue to maintain street trees listed in its database as Department-maintained trees. Such information shall be made available to the public upon request. 
	Within 120 days of the effective date of this Article, the Department shall publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the City a list of all trees or corridors of trees maintained by the Department. 
	(e)	Department Relinquishment of Street Tree Maintenance. The Director may, in his or her discretion, determine to relinquish tree maintenance responsibilities for certain trees or corridors of trees. Prior to such relinquishment, the Director shall post the affected trees and send notice to abutting property owners of the Department's intent to relinquish maintenance responsibilities on a date certain. Within 10 days of the posting and mailing of such notice, any affected property owner may object in writing to such relinquishment. At the written request of any person, the Director will hold a hearing prior to relinquishing maintenance responsibility for a particular tree or corridor of trees. The Director's decision on such relinquishment shall be final and nonappealable. 
	Prior to relinquishing maintenance responsibilities, the Department shall perform all necessary major tree maintenance. As of the date designated by the Director, all tree maintenance and tree-related maintenance shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owner. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; Ord. 84-10, File No. 091453, App. 4/22/2010)
SEC. 806.  PLANTING AND REMOVAL OF STREET TREES.
	(a)	Planting and Removal by the Department.
		(1)	Planting. The Department may determine to plant a new climate appropriate tree(s) in a sidewalk or public right-of-way. When the Department determines to plant a new street tree(s), the Department will undertake maintenance responsibility for such new street tree and shall send a courtesy notice to the abutting property owner prior to planting such new tree. Any objections to the proposed work must be submitted to the Director in writing and postmarked within 30 days after notice by the Director. The Director shall consider such objections and may hold a hearing, in the Director's discretion. The Director's decision on the matter shall be final and nonappealable. 
		(2)	Removal of Street Trees. No street tree shall be cut down or removed by the Department unless: 
			(A)	The Department gives 30 days' prior written notice to the owner of the property abutting the affected tree; and
			(B)	Thirty days prior to the removal date, the Department notifies all interested San Francisco organizations and, to the extent practical, all owners and occupants of properties that are on or across from the block face where the affected tree is located. In addition, 30 days prior to the removal date, the Department shall post a notice on the affected tree. 
		(3)	Appeal of Tree Removal.
			(A)	If within 30 days after the giving of notice for street tree removal, as specified in Subsection (a)(2), or if within 15 days after the giving of notice for removal of a hazard street tree, as specified in Subsection (a)(4), any person files with the Department written objections to the removal, the Director shall hold a hearing to consider public testimony concerning the proposed tree removal. Written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be posted on the affected tree, provided in a newspaper of general circulation, and sent to the objecting party, the owner of the property abutting the affected tree, and all interested San Francisco organizations, not less than seven days prior thereto. 
			(B)	The Director shall issue his or her written decision and order on the objections after the public hearing specified above.
			(C)	The Director's decision shall be final and appealable to the Board of Appeals.
		(4)	Removal of Hazard Street Trees.
			(A)	No hazard street tree shall be cut down or removed by the Department unless:
				(i)	The Department gives 15 days' prior written notice to the owner of the property abutting the affected tree; and
				(ii)	Fifteen days prior to the removal date, the Department notifies all interested San Francisco organizations and, to the extent practical, owners and occupants of properties that are on or across the block face where the affected tree is located. In addition, 15 days prior to the removal date, the Department shall post a notice on the affected tree. 
			(B)	Hazard street tree shall have the same meaning as "hazard tree" in Section 802(o) except that a hazard street tree is located within the public right-of-way and is the maintenance responsibility of the Department. 
		(5)	Emergency Removal. In the case of manifest danger and immediate necessity, as determined by the Director, the Department may remove any street tree immediately. After such emergency removal, the Department shall provide notice of the necessity for such action to the owner of the property abutting the affected tree, all interested San Francisco organizations and, to the extent practical, all owners and occupants of properties that are on or across from the block face where the affected tree was removed. 
	(b)	Planting and Removal by Persons Other Than the Department.
		(1)	Planting and Removal Permits. It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or to remove any street tree without a valid permit for such work issued by the Department. All permits for the planting or removal of street trees issued by the Director for residential properties shall be recorded on the Report of Residential Building Records in accordance with Section 351 of the Housing Code. All work associated with a street tree permit must be completed within six months of issuance, unless an extension has been granted by the Department. 
		(2)	Planting. An abutting property owner who desires a permit to plant a street tree shall apply to the Department on the designated form. If approved by the Director, a permit to plant the specified climate appropriate species of tree(s) shall be issued to the applicant. There shall be no administrative fee imposed for a permit to plant a street tree unrelated to property development. The Director's decision on a street tree planting permit shall be final and appealable to the Board of Appeals. 
		(3)	Removal.
			(A)	An abutting property owner who desires a permit to remove a street tree shall apply to the Department on the designated form. The Department may grant or deny the permit in accordance with the following procedures and requirements. If the Department grants a tree removal permit, it shall require that a street tree or trees of equivalent replacement value to the one removed be planted in the place of the removed tree or impose an in-lieu fee unless it makes written findings detailing the basis for waiving or modifying this requirement. 
				(i)	The fee for a permit to remove 1-3 street trees shall be $607.00 when the permit is requested to allow for development or construction; the fee for a permit to remove 1-3 street trees shall be $300.00 when the permit is requested to remove a hazard or a diseased tree or to prevent damage to the sidewalk; the fee for a permit to remove 4-9 street trees shall be $808.00; and the fee to remove 10 or more street trees shall be $1,214.00. 
				(ii)	Additional Fees. In instances where administration or processing of any application is or will exceed the fee amount established pursuant to subsection (i), the Director, in his or her discretion, may require an applicant or permittee to pay a sum in excess of the subject fee amounts. This additional sum shall be sufficient to recover actual costs that the Department incurs and shall be charged on a time and materials basis. The Director also may charge for any time and materials costs that other agencies, boards, commissions, or departments of the City, including the City Attorney's Office, incur in connection with the processing or administration of a particular application. Whenever additional fees are or will be charged, the Director, upon request of the applicant or permittee, shall provide in writing the basis for the additional fees or an estimate of the additional fees to be charged. 
				(iii)	Fee Review and Adjustment. Beginning with fiscal year 2010-2011, the fees that are established herein shall be reviewed and adjusted each year in accordance with the procedures set forth in Public Works Code Section 2.1.2. 
			(B)	Thirty days prior to the removal date, the Department shall give notice to all interested San Francisco organizations and, to the extent practicable, the owners and occupants of properties that are on or across from the block face or adjacent to where the affected tree is located. In addition, 30 days prior to the removal date, the Department shall post a notice on the affected tree. If within 30 days after the giving of such notice any person files with the Department written objections to the removal, the Director shall hold a hearing prior to removing the tree. Written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be posted on the affected tree and sent to the objecting party and all interested San Francisco organizations not less than seven days prior thereto. 
			(C)	The Director shall issue his or her written decision and order on the objections after the public hearing specified above.
			(D)	The Director's decision shall be final and appealable to the Board of Appeals.
	(c)	Planting and Removal by City Agencies, Commissions, or Other Departments. If a City agency, commission, or department other than the Department of Public Works desires to plant or remove a street tree, such agency, commission, or department shall be subject to the provisions of Subsection (b); provided, however, that for purposes of street tree removal, the notice and procedures for Director's hearings set forth in Subsections (a)(2) and (a)(3) shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; amended by Ord. 294-98, File No. 98-0991, Eff. 11/2/98; Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006; Ord. 193-06, File No. 060778, App. 7/21/2006; Ord. 166-09, File No. 090722, Ap. 7/21/2009; Ord. 84-10, File No. 091453, App. 4/22/2010) 
SEC. 807.  DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS URBAN FORESTRY PROGRAM; POWERS AND DUTIES.
	(a)	Arterial Planting Program. The Department shall continue its program of appropriate street tree planting along major traffic routes and commercial streets throughout the City. 
	(b)	Neighborhood Planting Program. The Department shall continue to encourage and support neighborhood planting programs. Support may include, but need not be limited to, provision of trees and materials, sidewalk cutting and removal, planting labor, technical advice, and organizational assistance. The Department is hereby authorized to donate such funds, materials and labor to neighborhood planting programs as are deemed by the Director to be in the public interest and in the interest of the promotion of the urban forest. 
	(c)	Public Education. The Department shall undertake an on-going program of public outreach and education in order to promote public understanding of the City's urban forest and public adherence to the standards and procedures established under this Article. 
	(d)	Authority over Site Development Plans.
		(1)	The Department shall have the authority to review and comment on site development plan applications received by the City's Central Permit Bureau that pertain to the planting, alteration, or removal of street trees. The Department shall also have the authority to review and comment on site development plan applications that pertain to the alteration or removal of landmark trees designated pursuant to Section 810(a) of this Article and significant trees pursuant to Section 810A of this Article. Protection of such trees during construction shall be required in accordance with Section 808(c) of this Article. Removal of such trees shall be subject to the applicable rules and procedures for removal set forth in Section 806, 810, or 810A of this Article. 
		(2)	If the Zoning Administrator modifies or waives the requirements of Planning Code Section 138.1 pursuant to Planning Code Section 138.1(c)(1)(iii), the Department shall impose an in-lieu fee of the property owner so excused. Further, if a property owner is required to plant a street tree pursuant to Planning Code Section 138.1, the Department shall require that the property owner maintain such tree or replace any such tree that subsequently dies or is removed by any person, or pay an in-lieu fee. The Department shall follow the requirements set forth herein for tree replacement or payment of an in-lieu fee unless it makes written findings detailing the basis for waiving said requirements. 
	(e)	Adopt-A-Tree Fund. Pursuant to Section 10.117-77 of the Administrative Code, the Department shall maintain an Adopt-A-Tree Fund to enhance the urban forestry program. 
	(f)	In-Lieu Planting Program. The Department shall develop and implement an In-Lieu Planting Program to offset the loss of street trees, significant trees, and landmark trees due to removal, destruction, or death. The In-Lieu Planting Program shall also compensate for the loss of trees required to be planted by Section 138.1 of the Planning Code, yet excused by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to Planning Code Section 138.1(c)(1)(iii). The Department shall impose an in-lieu fee in accordance with a fee schedule adopted by the Director where a street tree is destroyed, removed or is excused from planting where otherwise required by Planning Code Section 138.1. The Department also shall assess an in-lieu fee or such other penalty as set forth in Section 811 as mitigation for violation of the requirements of this Article. The Department shall follow the requirements set forth herein for payment of an in-lieu fee unless it makes written findings detailing the basis for waiving said requirements. As set forth in Section 811, in lieu fees shall be deposited in the Adopt-A-Tree Fund. 
	(g)	Tree Adoption Program. The Department shall develop and implement a tree adoption program to allow persons to donate money for the purpose of tree planting and maintenance. Money donated to the City and County for the purpose of tree planting and maintenance shall be deposited into the Adopt-A-Tree Fund. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; amended by Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006; Ord. 84-10, File No. 091453, App. 4/22/2010; Ord. 310-10, File No. 101194, App. 12/16/2010) 
SEC. 808.  PROTECTION OF TREES AND LANDSCAPE MATERIAL.
	(a)	Injury to or Destruction of Trees Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, maliciously or through gross negligence injure or destroy a street tree, any tree on City property, a significant tree, or a landmark tree. Removal of a tree under City order or removal in accordance with a permit issued pursuant to Section 806, 810, or 810A of this Article is exempt from this prohibition. 
	(b)	Injury to or Destruction of Landscape Materials Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, maliciously or through gross negligence injure or destroy any landscape material in any street median, center strip, or other landscaped portion of a public right-of-way under the City's jurisdiction, except as authorized by the Department. 
	(c)	Construction Work: Protection of Trees Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any construction work on private or public property without first taking steps to protect street trees, significant trees, and landmark trees from damage, including damage caused by soil compaction or contamination, excavation, or placement of concrete or other pavement or foundation material. If excavation, construction, or street work is planned within the dripline of a significant tree, a landmark tree or a tree on any street or other publicly owned property said tree(s) shall be adequately protected. If any construction work results in the injury or damage to such trees, the responsible party(ies) may be subject to the penalties set forth in Section 811 of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; amended by Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006)
SEC. 809.  HAZARD TREES; ABATEMENT.
	(a)	Notice to Property Owner(s). Upon a finding by the Director that a tree on private property or a street tree for which a property owner is responsible is a "hazard tree" as defined herein, the Director shall provide notice to the property owner(s) which describes the condition creating the hazard, the actions required to be taken to abate the hazard, and the date by which compliance must be completed. Required action may include replacement or removal of the tree in accordance with applicable requirements and procedures provided in this Article for removal of the subject tree. In cases of extreme danger, as determined by the Director, the Director may require immediate compliance. 
	(b)	Director of Public Works To Abate Hazard if Owner Fails To Do So. If the responsible property owner does not undertake in a timely manner the abatement action, as required by said notice, the Director may perform necessary work to abate the hazard. The cost of such abatement, including labor, equipment, materials, inspection services, and administrative costs, shall be an obligation owing by the responsible property owner(s) to the City. 
	(c)	Method of Enforcement and Collection of Lien. The Department shall send notice of assessment of costs to the responsible property owner. Such notice shall include a statement that payment is due within 60 days of the mailing date of the notice. If a responsible property owner fails timely to remit payment, the Department shall send a second notice of payment due. Such second notice shall include a statement that failure timely to remit payment in full to the City within 30 days of the mailing of the second notice shall cause the Director to institute lien proceedings pursuant to Sections 706.4-706.7 of this Code. Enforcement and collection of liens for costs associated with hazard tree abatement shall be in accordance with Sections 706.4-706.7 of this Code, except that all monies received in payment of such liens, with the exception of enforcement costs, shall be credited to the Adopt-A-Tree Fund. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; amended by Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006)
SEC. 810.  LANDMARK TREES.
	(a)	Designation Criteria. The Board of Supervisors in Resolution No. 440-06, Clerk of the Board of Supervisors File No. 060487, adopted uniform criteria for the designation of landmark trees, which included consideration of the age, size, shape, species, location, historical association, visual quality, and other contribution to the City's character, as set forth Section 810(f)(4)(A)-(E) below. This designation criteria, which may be amended from time to time, shall apply to all trees within the territorial limits of the City and County of San Francisco. 
	(b)	Designation Process.
		(1)	Nominations. A tree may be nominated for designation as a landmark tree by any of the following parties: (i) the property owner whose property contains the subject tree by a written request to the Urban Forestry Council; (ii) the Board of Supervisors, Planning Commission, or Landmarks Preservation Advisory Board by adoption of a resolution of intent to nominate a tree for landmark status; or (iii) the director of any City agency or department by filing a nomination letter with the Urban Forestry Council. Each tree nominated for landmark tree status shall be the subject of a separate individual nomination. 
		(2)	Content of Nominations. Nominations shall be made in writing to the Urban Forestry Council and shall include the basis for the nomination, which may address one or more of the adopted designation criteria, including the factors listed below in Section 810(f)(4)(A)-(E) below; the lot, assessor's block, and street address of the subject property; one or more pictures of the tree; and any other information that the nominating property owner or entity believes would be pertinent to the nomination. 
		(3)	Urban Forestry Council Hearing and Determination. The Urban Forestry Council shall hold a public hearing on a completed nomination request, and shall determine whether the tree qualifies as a landmark tree pursuant to the adopted designation criteria. After the conclusion of the public hearing, the Urban Forestry Council shall adopt written findings that specify the basis for its decision to approve or reject the nomination and shall forward these findings to the applicant for the nomination and the affected property owner. If the Urban Forestry Council determines that the subject tree meets the adopted designation criteria, it shall forward said decision to the Director, as to a tree on private property, or to the subject City agency, commission or department, as to a tree on City-owned property. If the Urban Forestry Council rejects the nomination, the Council shall not accept a new request for the subject tree for three years from the date of its decision. If the Urban Forestry Council determines that a tree qualifies as a landmark tree, its written findings on the nomination, along with any recommendations of relevant City agencies, commissions or departments, shall be forwarded to the Board of Supervisors for its consideration pursuant to Section 810(b)(4) of this Article. If the Urban Forestry Council fails to forward said findings to the Board of Supervisors within 120 days of the Urban Forestry Council's receipt of the nomination request, the Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, schedule a public hearing on the nomination, in which event, the failure of the Urban Forestry Council to forward said findings within the 120 day period shall constitute its approval of the nomination. 
			(A)	If the nominated tree is on private or public property, the Council shall provide mailed notice of the hearing to the subject property owner and all property owners adjoining the subject property where the tree is located at least seven (7) days prior to its hearing. The Council, in its discretion, also may provide delivered notice of the hearing to residents adjoining the subject property, posted notice, or both. 
			(B)	If the subject property exceeds one (1) acre in size, the Council shall provide posted notice in lieu of the mailed notice. Such notice shall be posted on at least two locations on each block face(s) tangent to the subject property at least seven (7) days prior to its hearing. 
			(C)	If the Council either delivers or posts notice in accordance with these provisions, staff assigned to this task shall sign an affidavit, accompanied with any supporting material, stating when and where the notice was delivered or posted. 
		(4)	Designation. Upon the recommendation of the Urban Forestry Council, the Board of Supervisors, by ordinance, may designate as a "landmark tree" any tree within the territorial limits of the City and County of San Francisco that meets the adopted designation criteria, or may rescind such designations. If the Urban Forestry Council does not issue findings in a timely manner pursuant to Subsection (b)(3), the Board of Supervisors shall adopt its own findings as part of the designation of a landmark tree. 
	(c)	Landmark Tree Designation Recorded Notice and Official Book. Upon Board of Supervisors designation of a landmark tree, the Department or affected agency shall record a notice on the subject property concerning the landmark tree. The Department also shall record the landmark tree designation in an official book entitled Landmark Trees. If the landmark tree is a street tree under the maintenance responsibility of the Department, the Department shall record the landmark tree designation in a separate section of the Landmark Tree book that is reserved for those landmark trees under the maintenance responsibility of the Department. The Department shall maintain this book for public review and update it on a regular basis with the assistance of affected agencies. 
	(d)	Temporary Designation of Landmark Tree Status.
		(1)	At the time a member of the Board of Supervisors introduces a resolution of intent to initiate a nomination and submits to the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors the information required for a landmark tree nomination request as set forth in Section 810(b)(2), the subject tree shall be temporarily designated as a landmark tree ("temporary designation") and be subject to the provisions governing landmark trees set forth herein while proceedings are pending on the landmark tree designation. At the time the Planning Commission or Landmarks Preservation Advisory Board adopts a resolution of intent to initiate a nomination, temporary designation of the subject tree shall occur. If the Director of the Department or the director of any other City agency, commission or department initiates landmark tree designation, temporary designation shall occur when the Urban Forestry Council adopts a resolution determining that the subject tree qualifies for landmark tree status. In addition, the Director of the Department shall have the authority to issue an emergency order that temporarily designates a tree on private property or on any property under the jurisdiction of the Department to prevent the immediate removal of a tree. Upon initiation of a nomination pursuant to this Section, the entity initiating nomination shall immediately inform the Director who shall immediately cause a notice to be provided to the relevant department or private property owner informing them of the special permit and approval requirements pursuant to Section 810(f). 
		(2)	If 215 days have elapsed from the date of temporary designation and final action on landmark tree designation has not been completed, the temporary designation status for the subject tree shall expire unless the Board of Supervisors adopts a resolution to extend the temporary designation. Such extension shall not exceed 90 additional days. 
		(3)	Although the subject tree ultimately may be designated as a landmark tree sometime after expiration of temporary designation status, once the temporary designation has expired or is rejected as set forth below in Subsection (5), the affected tree shall not be subject to a new temporary designation for at least two years from the date of temporary designation. 
		(4)	The 215-day term of temporary designation or any additional term, if extended through Board of Supervisors action pursuant to this Section, shall automatically be extended 30 additional days from the date the Mayor either signs the ordinance designating the subject tree as a landmark tree or the 10th day after the Clerk of the Board refers said ordinance to the Mayor and the ordinance is not signed or vetoed. 
		(5)	If the Board of Supervisors rejects a resolution of intent to initiate nomination of a tree or the Urban Forestry Council rejects a nomination under subsection (b)(3), the temporary designation shall automatically terminate. 
	(e)	Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall be required to identify designated landmark tree(s) on proposed development or construction sites and to notify the Urban Forestry Council and the Department or affected City agency, commission or department. The Zoning Administrator and the Department or such other City Agency, commission or department with jurisdiction, shall be required to impose measures to protect such landmark trees on a construction site against damage to trunk, roots, and branches in accordance with Section 808(c) of this Article. Removal of such trees shall be subject to the rules and procedures for removal of landmark trees provided in this Section. 
	(f)	Removal Criteria and Procedures.
		(1)	Removal Criteria. The Urban Forestry Council shall develop and recommend for adoption by the Board of Supervisors uniform criteria, rules, and procedures governing determinations to remove landmark trees. Removal criteria shall require consideration and written findings on all of the factors related to the landmark tree as set forth in Section 810(g)(4), below, and shall not authorize the removal of a landmark tree unless the it constitutes a hazard tree pursuant to Section 802(o). Public notice, in accordance with the requirements of Section 806(a)(2), and a hearing shall be required. 
		(2)	Removal on Private Property; Special Permit Required. A property owner who desires a permit to remove a landmark tree shall apply to the Department on the designated form. Such application must be accompanied by an administrative fee in accordance with a fee schedule adopted by the Director. Except in the case of manifest danger and immediate necessity, landmark trees on private property shall be removed only after the Director's determination and issuance of a permit, following a public hearing. If the Director determines that removal of a landmark tree is necessary or permissible in accordance with the adopted removal criteria, the Director may impose such reasonable conditions on the permit for removal as he or she deems necessary to compensate for the loss of the tree, including but not limited to the replacement value of the tree, administrative costs, and contribution to the Adopt-A-Tree Fund. The Director's determination shall be final and appealable to the Board of Appeals. Any person seeking permission to remove a landmark tree must pay all costs related to the permit process and public hearings. Pending adoption of criteria for removal of landmark trees, the Department shall rely on the general criteria set forth in Section 810(f)(4)(A)-(F). 
		(3)	Removal on City-owned Property; Special Approval Required. Removal of a landmark tree(s) on City property under the jurisdiction of any City agency, commission, or department shall be subject to the criteria, rules, and procedures adopted by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to Section 810(f)(1), above, including the process for public notice and a hearing prior to removal of the tree. After following said criteria, rules, and procedures, the subject City agency, commission, or department shall make its decision on removal of a landmark tree(s). Such decision is final and nonappealable. Pending the Board of Supervisor's adoption of the criteria, rules, and procedures pursuant to Section 810(f)(1), the agency, commission, or department shall follow the general criteria of Subsection (f)(4)(A)-(F) and similar rules and procedures for removal of street trees as set forth in Section 806(c) and for removal of hazard trees as set forth in this Section 806(a)(4). This Subsection shall not supercede the Charter jurisdiction that has been granted to any City agency, commission, or department. 
		(4)	Required Findings. As part of any determination that authorizes removal of any landmark tree, the City entity making such determination shall, in addition to the adopted removal criteria, consider and make written findings on each of the following factors related to the tree: 
			(A)	Size, age, and species;
			(B)	Visual characteristics, including the tree's form and whether it is a prominent landscape feature;
			(C)	Cultural or historic characteristics, including whether the tree has significant ethnic appreciation or historical association or whether the tree was part of a historic planting program that defines neighborhood character; 
			(D)	Ecological characteristics, including whether the tree provides important wildlife habitat, is part of a group of interdependent trees, provides erosion control, or acts as a wind or sound barrier; 
			(E)	Locational characteristics, including whether the tree is in a high traffic area or low tree density area, provides shade or other benefits to multiple properties, and is visually accessible from the public right-of-way; and 
			(F)	One or more criteria that qualify the tree as a hazard tree pursuant to Section 802(o).
		(5)	Emergency Removal on Private Property. In the case of manifest danger and immediate necessity, as determined by the Director, the Director may remove or require the responsible owner(s) to remove a landmark tree immediately. After such emergency removal, the Director shall provide written notice of the necessity for such action to the Board of Supervisors and the Urban Forestry Council and shall also provide such notice to all interested San Francisco organizations and, to the extent practical, to the owners and occupants of properties that are on or across from the block face where the affected tree was removed. If the Department incurs any costs related to an emergency removal, said costs, including labor, equipment, materials, inspection services, and administrative costs, shall be an obligation owing by the responsible owner(s) to the City. Removal of a landmark tree pursuant to this Subsection is not subject to Section 810(f)(4) above. 
		(6)	Emergency Removal on City-owned Property. In the case of manifest danger and immediate necessity, as determined by the director or general manager of the subject agency, commission, or department, the subject agency, commission, or department may remove a landmark tree within its jurisdiction immediately. After such emergency removal, the subject agency, department, or commission shall provide written notice of the necessity of such action to the Board of Supervisors, Urban Forestry Council and Department of Public Works and shall also provide such notice to all interested San Francisco organization and, to the extent practical, the owners and occupants of properties that are on or across from the block face where the affected tree was removed. Removal of a landmark tree pursuant to this Subsection is not subject to Section 810(f)(4) above. 
	(g)	If a landmark tree(s) has been designated as part of a local historic district or landmark under Article 10 of the Planning Code, removal of such tree shall be subject to the procedures set forth in the Planning Code Article 10 in addition to the requirements of Subsection 810(f) above. In the case of a conflict between Section 810(f) and the Article 10 designation, the more restrictive provisions shall apply. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; amended by Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006; amended by Ord. 52-08, File No. 071672, App. 3/31/2008) 
SEC. 810A.  SIGNIFICANT TREES.
	(a)	Definition. For purposes of this Section, a significant tree shall be a tree: (1) on property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works or (2) on privately owned-property with any portion of its trunk within 10 feet of the public right-of-way, and (3) that satisfies at least one of the following criteria: (a) a diameter at breast height (DBH) in excess of twelve (12) inches, (b) a height in excess of twenty (20) feet, or (c) a canopy in excess of fifteen (15) feet. The Director may deem a significant tree a hazard tree if such tree satisfies the provisions of Section 802(o). A landmark tree shall not be treated as a significant tree even if the landmark tree meets one or more of the abovementioned criteria. A landmark tree shall be governed by the provisions of Section 810. 
	(b)	Removal; Requirements.
		(1)	Removal of a significant tree(s) on privately-owned property shall be subject to the rules and procedures governing permits for removal of street trees as set forth in Section 806(b). 
		(2)	Removal of a significant tree(s) that are the responsibility of the Department shall be subject to the rules and procedures governing permit for Departmental removal of street trees as set forth in Section 806(a). 
		(3)	If the Director determines that a significant tree is a hazard tree, this Article's provisions applicable to removal of a hazard tree shall apply. 
		(4)	Emergency Removal. In the case of manifest danger and immediate necessity, as determined by the Director in writing, the Director may remove or require the responsible owner(s) to remove a significant tree immediately. After such emergency removal, the Department shall provide written notice to all interested San Francisco organizations and, to the extent practical, owners and occupants of properties that are on or across from the block face where the affected tree was removed of the necessity for such action. If the Department incurs any costs related to an emergency removal, said costs, including labor, equipment, materials, inspection services, and administrative costs, shall be an obligation owing by the responsible owner(s) to the City. Removal of a significant tree pursuant to this Subsection is not subject to Subsection (c) below. 
	(c)	As part of the Director's determination to authorize removal of a significant tree, the Director shall consider the following factors related to the tree; 
		(1)	Size, age, and species;
		(2)	Visual and aesthetic characteristics, including the tree's form and whether it is a prominent landscape feature or part of a streetscape; 
		(3)	Cultural or historic characteristics, including whether the tree has significant ethnic appreciation or historical association or whether the tree was part of a historic planting program that defines neighborhood character; 
		(4)	Ecological characteristics, including whether the tree provides important wildlife habitat, is part of a group of interdependent trees, provides erosion control, or acts as a wind or sound barrier; 
		(5)	Locational characteristics, including whether the tree is in a high traffic area or low tree density area, or provides shade or other public benefits; 
		(6)	Whether the tree constitutes a hazard tree as set forth in Section 802(o); and
		(7)	Whether the tree has been maintained as set forth in Section 802(l).
	(d)	Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall be required to identify significant tree(s) on proposed development or construction sites and to notify the Department. The Zoning Administrator and the Department shall be required to impose measures to protect such significant trees on a construction site against damage to trunk, roots, and branches in accordance with Section 808(c) of this Article. Removal of such trees shall be subject to the rules and procedures for removal of significant trees provided in this Section. 
(Added by Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006)
SEC. 810B.  SIDEWALK LANDSCAPE PERMITS.
	(a)	Permit for Installation or Removal of Sidewalk Landscaping. Permits to install or remove sidewalk landscaping shall be subject to the rules and procedures applicable to planting and removal of street trees under Section 806(b). 
	(b)	Permit Decision.
		(1)	The Director of the Department, in his or her discretion, may approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the requested permit. When issuing permits, the Director may impose any conditions consistent with the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience, including, but not limited to, appropriate time, place, and manner restrictions and considerations to minimize neighborhood impacts. 
		(2)	All sidewalk landscape permits are revocable at the will of the Director. In addition, when, in the judgment of the Director of Public Works, the public interest or convenience will be served by the removal of the dirt, debris, materials and equipment or any portion thereof from the sidewalk space, the Director shall modify, condition, or revoke the permit accordingly. 
	(c)	Fees. The fee for a sidewalk landscape permit is $215.00. If two, three, or four applicants on the same block submit a joint application for a sidewalk landscape permit, the fee is $185.00 for each applicant. If five or more applicants on the same block submit a joint application for a sidewalk landscape permit, the fee is $160.00 for each applicant. Fees for removal of sidewalk landscaping shall be the same as the fee charged for permits to remove street trees. 
		(1)	Fee Review and Adjustment. Beginning with fiscal year 2007-2008, the fees that are established herein shall be reviewed and adjusted each year in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.1.2. 
	(d)	Minimum Accessibility Requirements.
		(1)	In no case shall the new sidewalk-landscape result in an unobstructed sidewalk width of less than 48 inches or increase the cross-slope of the portion of the sidewalk designated as an accessible path-of-travel. 
		(2)	For each curbside parking space (approximately 20 feet of curb length), the design shall include a minimum 48-inch wide accessible curbside parking path that is perpendicular and connects the curb to the sidewalk path of travel. This path shall be: (i) located at the approximate centerline of each curbside parking space; (ii) made of concrete, pavers, or brick; and (iii) set on a firm base. 
	(e)	The permit holder shall be responsible for maintaining the sidewalk-landscape area in a condition that is safe to pedestrians and vehicular traffic and free of litter and unsightly weeds. The permit holder also shall be responsible to maintain the health of plants with appropriate pruning, watering, and other care. 
	(f)	Waiver of Requirements. The Director, in his or her discretion, may waive any of the substantive requirements for a sidewalk landscape permit. The Director may issue a waiver only after holding a public hearing on the waiver request and issuing a written decision concerning whether the waiver will be granted, conditionally granted, or denied. When issuing such waivers, the Director may impose any conditions consistent with the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience. 
	(g)	Regulations. In addition to the requirements set forth in this Section, the Director, after a public hearing, may adopt such orders, policies, regulations, rules, or standard plans and specifications as he or she deems necessary in order to preserve and maintain the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience. Such orders, policies, regulations, or rules may include, but are not limited to, permit application materials, planting guidelines, planting locations, materials, key design dimensions for planting areas, site conditions, replanting, landscape design modifications, and accessibility of sidewalks and streets. When such orders, policies, regulations or rules will affect the operations and enforcement of the Department of Parking and Traffic or the Municipal Railway, the Director shall consult with and provide an opportunity to comment to the General Manager of the Municipal Transportation Agency prior to adoption of such orders, policies, regulations, or rules. 
(Added by Ord. 121-06, File No. 060142, App. 6/14/2006)
SEC. 811.  PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF ORDINANCE.
	(a)	Criminal Penalties. Violation of any of the provisions of Sections 806, 808, 810(f)(1), 810A(b), and 810B of this Article shall be chargeable as an infraction or a misdemeanor. Every violation determined to be an infraction is punishable by a fine of $200 for a first violation and $400 for each additional violation within one year. Every violation determined to be a misdemeanor is punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000 and/or imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not to exceed six months, for each offense. 
	(b)	Civil Penalties and Fees.
		(1)	The Director may call upon the City Attorney to maintain an action for injunction to restrain or summary abatement to cause the correction or abatement of the violation of this Article, and for assessment and recovery of a civil penalty and reasonable attorney's fees for such violation. 
		(2)	Any person who violates this Article may be liable for a civil penalty, not to exceed $500 for each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, which penalty shall be assessed and recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the people of the City by the City Attorney in any court of competent jurisdiction. In assessing the amount of the civil penalty, the court may consider any one or more of the relevant circumstances presented by any of the parties to the case, including, but not limited to, the following: the nature and seriousness of the misconduct, the number of violations, the persistence of the misconduct, the length of time over which the misconduct occurred; and the willfulness of the defendant's misconduct. The City Attorney also may seek recovery of the attorneys' fees and costs incurred in bringing a civil action pursuant to this Section. 
	(c)	Administrative Penalties.
		(1)	In addition to the penalties set forth in Subsections (a) and (b) above, the Director may require any person who removes, injures, or destroys a tree in violation of the provisions of this Article to pay a sum of money equal to the tree's replacement value or the diminishment of the tree's value as set forth in the current edition of the Guide for Plant Appraisal (Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers). Further, in addition to the penalties set forth in Subsections (a) and (b) above, the Director may require any person who removes, fails to maintain, injures, or destroys sidewalk landscaping or the associated design improvements in violation of the provisions of Section 810B to pay a sum of money equal to the replacement value of the affected landscape material and associated design improvements or the diminishment of the value of the landscape material as set forth in the current edition of the Guide for Plant Appraisal (Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers). In no case shall the administrative penalty be less than $500 per violation. When one or more additional violations occur within one year of the first violation, the Director may assess a responsible party double the tree's replacement value or the diminishment of the tree's value. Depending on the nature and seriousness of the misconduct, including unpermitted removal of or damage to a landmark or significant tree; the unpermitted removal of or damage to sidewalk landscaping installed pursuant to a permit issued under Section 810B; the number of violations; the persistence of the misconduct; the length of time over which the misconduct occurred; or the willfulness of the defendant's misconduct, the Director may assess additional penalties in excess of the amounts specified above. In addition to the administrative penalty assessed pursuant to this Section, the Director may assess enforcement costs to cover the reasonable costs incurred in enforcing the administrative penalty, including reasonable attorneys' fees. Any and all amounts paid or collected pursuant to this subsection, with the exception of enforcement costs, shall be deposited into the Adopt-A-Tree Fund. 
		(2)	The Department shall send notice of the assessment of administrative penalties to the responsible party. Such notice shall include a statement that payment is due within 60 days of the mailing date of the notice. If a responsible property owner fails timely to remit payment, the Department shall send a second notice of payment due. Such second notice shall include a statement that failure timely to remit payment in full to the City within 30 days of the mailing of the second notice shall cause the Director to institute lien proceedings pursuant to Sections 706.4-706.7 of this Code. Enforcement and collection of liens for costs associated with hazard tree abatement shall be in accordance with Sections 706.4-706.7 of this Code, except that all monies received in payment of such liens with the exception of enforcement costs, shall be credited to the Adopt-a-Tree Fund. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; amended by Ord. 294-98, File No. 98-0991, Eff. 11/2/98; amended by Ord. 17-06, File No. 051458, App. 1/20/2006; Ord. 121-06, File No. 060142, App. 6/14/2006) 
SEC. 812.  ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE; DESIGNATED EMPLOYEES.
	The classes of employees of the City and County of San Francisco set forth below shall have the duty of enforcing the provisions of this Article including, but not limited to, the unauthorized removal, injury or destruction of street trees or landmark trees: 
Classification No.Class Title3418Gardener Supervisor3422Park Section Supervisor3426Urban Forester3434Arborist Technician3436Arborist Technician Supervisor I5170Superintendent, Street Environmental Services5173Assistant Superintendent, Street Environmental Services7281Street Cleaning Supervisor II8280Environmental Control Officer 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; Ord. 121-06, File No. 060142, App. 6/14/2006; Ord. 310-10, File No. 101194, App. 12/16/2010)
SEC. 813.  URBAN FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN.
	The Department shall use its best efforts to ensure that activities of the Department are guided by the Urban Forest Management Plan entitled "The Trees of San Francisco" and adopted on April 16, 1991. The Department shall update and improve the Urban Forest Management Plan as necessary. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95)
SEC. 814.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Article or any part thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Article or any part thereof. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or ineffective. 
(Added by Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95)
ARTICLE 16.1:
TREE DISPUTE RESOLUTION
Sec. 820.Title.Sec. 821.Purpose.Sec. 822.Definitions.Sec. 823.Procedures.Sec. 824.Standards for Resolution of Disputes.Sec. 825.Apportionment of Costs.Sec. 826.Liabilities.Sec. 827.Enforcement.Sec. 828.Application With Other Laws.Sec. 829.Severability.
SEC. 820.  TITLE.
	This ordinance shall be known as the San Francisco Tree Dispute Resolution Ordinance. 
(Added by Ord. 445-88, App. 9/28/88)
SEC. 821.  PURPOSES.
	(a)	The San Francisco Tree Dispute Resolution Ordinance is enacted for the following public purposes:
		(1)	To create rights in favor of private property owners relating to the restoration of sunlight or views lost due to tree growth and to create a procedure for the resolution of disputes concerning those rights; 
		(2)	To promote all feasible means of energy conservation and all feasible uses of alternative energy supply sources;
		(3)	To encourage the use of solar energy for heat and light, encourage food production in private gardens, and increase access to light and views of surrounding locale; 
		(4)	To preserve and promote the aesthetic and practical benefits which trees provide for individuals and the entire community; and 
		(5)	To discourage ill-considered harm to, or destruction of, trees.
	(b)	This ordinance shall not be read to impair obligations imposed by an existing easement or a valid pre-existing enforceable covenant or agreement. 
	(c)	Nothing in this ordinance is meant to replace the peaceful, sensible, and just resolution of differences between neighbors acting in good faith. 
	(d)	It is not a purpose of this ordinance to facilitate or encounter the transmission of radio or television signals.
(Added by Ord. 445-88, App. 9/28/88)
SEC. 822.  DEFINITIONS.
	For the purposes of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply: 
	(a)	"Community Boards of San Francisco" shall mean the neighborhood mediation/dispute settlement service established under the auspices of the Community Board Program, Inc. 
	(b)	"Complaining party" shall mean any property owner who wishes to alter or remove a tree on the property of another which creates an obstruction to his or her access to sunlight or view. 
	(c)	"Obstruction" shall mean any view or access to sunlight which is blocked or diminished by the growth, maintenance or location of a tree. 
	(d)	"Restorative action" shall mean any specific requirement to resolve a tree dispute.
	(e)	"Solar access" shall mean the availability of sunlight to a property.
	(f)	"Thinning" shall mean the selective removal of entire branches from a tree so as to improve visibility through the tree and/or improve the tree's structural condition. 
	(g)	"Topping" shall mean elimination of the upper portion of a tree's trunk or main leader.
	(h)	"Tree" shall mean any woody perennial plant, usually with one or more major trunks attaining a height of at least fifteen feet at maturity; as used in this ordinance, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. 
	(i)	"Tree arbitrator" shall mean any trained and experienced arbitrator acceptable to both complaining party and tree owner to mediate or arbitrate a tree dispute. 
	(j)	"Tree claim" shall mean the written basis for arbitration or court action under the provisions of this Article which includes the following: 
		(1)	The nature and extent of the alleged obstruction, including pertinent and corroborating physical evidence. Evidence may include, but is not limited to, photographic prints, negatives, or slides. Such evidence must show absence of the obstruction at any documentable time during the tenure of the complaining party. Evidence to show the date of acquisition must be included. 
		(2)	The location of all trees alleged to cause the obstruction, the address of the property upon which the trees are located, and the present tree owner's name and address. 
		(3)	Any mitigating actions proposed by the parties involved to resolve the tree claim.
		(4)	The failure of personal communication between the complaining party and the tree owner to resolve the alleged obstruction as set forth in Section 823(a) of this Article. The complaining party must provide physical evidence that written attempts at reconciliation have been made and failed. Evidence may include, but is not limited to, copies of and receipts for certified or registered mail correspondence. 
	(k)	"Tree owner" shall mean any individual owning real property in San Francisco upon whose land is located a tree alleged by a complaining party to cause an obstruction. 
	(l)	"Tree removal" shall mean the elimination of any tree from its present location.
	(m)	"Trimming" shall mean the selective removal of portions of branches from a tree so as to modify the tree's shape or profile or alter the tree's appearance. 
	(n)	"Views" shall mean a distant vista or panoramic range of sight of San Francisco, neighboring areas, or the San Francisco Bay. Views include but are not limited to skylines, bridges, distant cities, geologic features, hillside terrains, and wooded canyons or ridges. 
(Added by Ord. 445-88, App. 9/28/88)
SEC. 823.  PROCEDURES.
	The procedures described in this Section shall be followed in the resolution of tree disputes between private parties. 
	(a)	Initial Reconciliation. A complaining party who believes in good faith that the growth, maintenance or location of a tree on the private property of a tree owner diminishes the beneficial use or economic value of his or her property because the tree interferes with the access to sunlight or views naturally accruing to the property, shall notify the tree owner in writing of these concerns. The notification should, if possible, be accompanied by personal discussions to enable the complaining party and tree owner to attempt to reach a mutually agreeable solution. 
	(b)	Community Board Mediation. If the initial reconciliation attempt fails, the complaining party may propose mediation with the Community Boards of San Francisco as a means to settle the dispute on a relatively informal basis. Acceptance of mediation by the tree owner shall be voluntary. Parties should be encouraged to give notice to immediate neighbors and solicit input. The Community Board mediator should consider the objectives, benefits and burdens set forth in this Article in attempting to help both parties reach a resolution of the dispute. 
	(c)	Tree Claim Preparation. In the event that the initial reconciliation process fails and Community Board mediation either is not elected or fails, the complaining party must prepare a tree claim as defined in Section 822(j), and provide a copy to the tree owner in order to pursue either binding arbitration or litigation. This process constitutes the filing of a tree claim. 
	(d)	Binding Arbitration. In those cases where the initial reconciliation process fails and where Community Board mediation has not resolved the dispute, the complaining party must offer to submit the dispute to binding arbitration, and the tree owner may elect binding arbitration. The identity of the tree arbitrator shall be agreed upon by both the complaining party and the tree owner who shall indicate such agreement in writing. This agreement may provide for employment of experts representing the parties or may be limited to an investigation of the tree claim conducted by the tree arbitrator. The tree arbitrator shall follow the provisions of this Article to reach a fair resolution of the tree claim and shall submit a complete written report to the complaining party and the tree owner. This report shall include the tree arbitrator's findings with respect to all standards listed in Section 824 and a pertinent list of all mandated restorative actions with any appropriate conditions concerning such actions including a schedule by which mandates must be completed. Such actions must be completed with due regard for the health of the tree. 
	(e)	Litigation. In those cases where initial reconciliation fails and binding arbitration is not elected, civil action may be pursued by the complaining party for resolution of the sunlight access or view tree claim under the provisions of this ordinance. The litigant must state in the complaint that arbitration was offered and not accepted. 
(Added by Ord. 445-88, App. 9/28/88)
SEC. 824.  STANDARDS FOR RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES.
	In resolving the tree dispute, the tree arbitrator or court shall consider the benefits and burdens derived from the alleged obstruction within the framework of the purposes of this Article as set forth in Section 821 in determining what restorative actions, if any, are appropriate. In proposing any given restorative action the complaining party shall have the burden of proving that the burdens posed by the tree owner's trees outweigh the benefits provided by the trees with respect to the proposed restorative action. 
	(a)	Burdens.
		(1)	The hazard posed by a tree to persons or structures on the property of the complaining party including, but not limited to, fire danger and the danger of falling limbs or trees. 
		(2)	The extent to which the tree diminishes the amount of sunlight available to the garden or home of the complaining party.
		(3)	The extent to which the tree interferes with efficient operation of a complaining party's pre-existing solar energy system.
		(4)	The existence of landmarks, vistas or other unique features which cannot be seen because of growth of trees since the acquisition of the property. 
		(5)	The extent to which the alleged obstruction interferes with sunlight or view. The degree of obstruction shall be determined by means of a measuring instrument or photography. 
		(6)	The extent to which solar access or the view is diminished by factors other than trees.
		(7)	Deleterious effect of the tree upon the complaining party's vegetation through loss of heat and light except that the dropping of leaves or maintenance factors shall not be a burden under this ordinance. 
	(b)	Benefits.
		(1)	Visual quality of the tree, including but not limited to, species characteristics, size, growth, form and vigor.
		(2)	Location with respect to overall appearance, design, and/or use of the tree owner's property.
		(3)	Soil stability provided by the tree considering soil structure, degree of slope, and extent of the tree's root system.
		(4)	Visual, auditory and wind screening provided by the tree to the tree owner and to neighbors.
		(5)	Energy conservation and/or climate control provided by the tree.
		(6)	Wildlife habitat provided by the tree.
		(7)	The economic value of the tree as measured by criteria developed by the International Society of Arboriculture and the economic value of the property as a result of the tree. 
		(8)	Other tree-related factors, including, but not limited to:
			(i)	The degree to which the species is native to the local region or area;
			(ii)	Indigenous nature of the species to which the tree belongs;
			(iii)	Specimen tree quality;
			(iv)	Rare tree species, and the frequency of new planting of a tree;
			(v)	Landmark tree designation, as determined pursuant to Section 811 of the Public Works Code.
	(c)	Restorative Actions.
		(1)	Restorative actions may include written directions as to appropriate timing of trimming, thinning, topping, or removal. Such restorative actions are to apply only to current parties to the agreement. The tree arbitrator or court may require compensation to the tree owner for value lost due to restorative actions. 
	Possible restorative actions may include (i) no action, (ii) trimming, (iii) thinning, (iv) delayed trimming or thinning, (v) topping, or (vi) tree removal with possible replacement plantings. 
		(2)	Restorative actions shall be limited to the trimming and/or thinning of branches where possible and practical. Trimming or thinning may be on a delayed basis, providing time for the top of the tree to grow above the point where it obstructs sunlight or view. 
		(3)	When trimming and/or thinning of branches is not a feasible solution, the impact on the health of the tree shall be considered before topping is required. 
		(4)	In those cases where tree removal eliminates or significantly reduces the tree owner's benefits, required replacement plantings shall at the tree owner's option be set forth in writing prior to the tree removal. The tree owner may elect tree removal with replacement plantings (as an alternative to trimming, thinning and topping). 
		(5)	All trimming, thinning, topping and tree removal required under this ordinance may be performed by a person or firm selected by the tree owner with the concurrence of the complaining party, except that in the event that the complaining party is not obligated to bear any of the cost for such action, his or her concurrence is not required. The use of a certified arborist for such work is especially encouraged; in the case of Landmark trees, use of a certified arborist is required. 
		(6)	The extent of solar access or view available and documentable as present at any time during the tenure of the complaining party is the limit of restorative action which may be required. 
		(7)	No restorative action may be required concerning any tree the base of which is more than 300 feet from the immediate vicinity of the dwelling of the complaining party's property. If no dwelling exists, the distance shall be determined from the most likely dwelling site upon the property or from the geographical center of the property at the discretion of the arbitrator or court as appropriate. 
		(8)	A tree which has been the subject of restorative action under the terms of this ordinance is exempted from other property owners' claims for a period of five years from date of filing of a tree claim. 
(Added by Ord. 445-88, App. 9/28/88)
SEC. 825.  APPORTIONMENT OF COSTS.
	(a)	Cost of Arbitration. The complaining party and the tree owner shall each pay 50 percent of the costs of the arbitrator's personal fee, if any. 
	(b)	Costs of Litigation. The complaining party shall pay 100 percent of both parties' reasonable attorneys' fees in the event that his or her claim is finally denied, or no action is ordered pursuant to Section 824(c). In all other cases the complaining party and the tree owner shall each pay his or her attorney's fees. Court costs shall be allocated to the parties at the court's discretion. 
	(c)	Costs of Restorative Actions. At any time during the procedure specified in this ordinance the parties may agree between themselves as to the allocation of the costs of restorative action. If such an agreement is not reached, the following shall apply: 
		(1)	As to trees planted prior to the effective date of this ordinance the complaining party shall pay 100 percent of the costs of the initial restorative action. The complaining party shall pay the cost of subsequent restorative action as a result of the recurrence of the same obstruction. 
		(2)	As to trees planted subsequent to the effective date of this chapter the tree owner and the complaining party shall each be responsible for 50 percent of the costs of restorative action and subsequent recurrence of the same obstruction. 
(Added by Ord. 445-88, App. 9/28/88)
SEC. 826.  LIABILITIES.
	(a)	The issuance of Community Board mediation findings, an arbitration report or a court decision shall not create any liability of the City with regard to the restorative actions to be performed. 
	(b)	The complaining party shall indemnify and hold harmless the tree owner with respect to any damages or liability incurred by said owner arising out of the performance of any work at the behest of the complaining party as follows: 
		(1)	With respect to trees planted prior to the effective date of this ordinance, the complaining party shall indemnify the tree owner as to 100 percent of any such damages or liability. 
		(2)	With respect to trees planted after the effective date of the ordinance, the complaining party shall indemnify the tree owner as to 50 percent of any such damages or liability. 
	(c)	Failure to enforce on the part of the city will not give rise to any civil or criminal liabilities.
(Added by Ord. 445-88, App. 9/28/88)
SEC. 827.  ENFORCEMENT.
	A violation of this Article is not a misdemeanor, and the enforcement of this Article shall be by private parties involved. The complaining party shall have the right to bring injunctive action to enforce any restorative action ordered pursuant to this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 445-88, App. 9/28/88)
SEC. 828.  APPLICATION WITH OTHER LAWS.
	Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to affect, diminish, or replace the duties and authority of the Director of Public Works set forth in Article 16 of the Public Works Code. 
(Added by Ord. 445-88, App. 9/28/88)
SEC. 829.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any portion of this ordinance or its application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance, including its application to other persons or circumstances shall remain in effect. 
(Added by Ord. 445-88, App. 9/28/88)
ARTICLE 17:
CONTROL OF DUMPS DISPOSING OF MATERIALS FROM CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION
Sec. 850.Definitions.Sec. 851.Permit Required to Operate Dump.Sec. 852.Application and Fee For Permit.Sec. 853.Application and Fee For Renewal of Permit.Sec. 854.Method of Disposal and Operation of Dump.Sec. 855.Fire Prevention.Sec. 856.Fence and Barrier to Floating Debris.Sec. 857.Dust Prevention.Sec. 858.Rodent and Insect Control.Sec. 859.Processing and Granting of Permits.Sec. 860.Variances.Sec. 861.Revocation of Permits and Variances.Sec. 862.Notice of Issuance of Permits and of Public Hearings.Sec. 863.Appeals to Board of Permit Appeals.Sec. 864.Applicability of Municipal Code.Sec. 865.Enforcement.Sec. 866.Violation a Misdemeanor.Sec. 867.Severability Clause.Sec. 868.Effective Date.
SEC. 850.  DEFINITIONS.
	The following definitions shall govern the construction of this Article unless the context requires a construction otherwise: 
	"Department" when used alone herein shall mean the Department of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco. 
	"Director" when used alone herein shall mean the Director of the Department of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco. 
	"Dump" means the premises or site within the City and County of San Francisco where the disposal of waste material as defined below, is engaged in, permitted or occurs, commercially or otherwise, and otherwise than by incineration. 
	"Fire hazard" means any thing or any act, or the lack of any required equipment or act, which increases, or may cause an increase of, the hazard or menace to life or property from fire, explosion or panic to a greater degree than that customarily recognized as normal by persons in the public service of preventing, suppressing or extinguishing fire; or which may obstruct, delay or hinder the saving of life from fire, explosion or panic, or may become the cause of any obstruction, delay or hindrance, to the prevention, suppression or extinguishment of fire. 
	"Open burning" means any combustion of combustible material outdoors in the open, not in any enclosure, where the products of combustion are not directed through a flue. 
	"Person" means any firm, association, organization, partnership, business, trust, joint venture, corporation or company, including the United States, the State of California, the City and County of San Francisco, and any districts, officers, employees or agency of such governmental agencies. 
	"Waste material" means nonputrescible debris and waste materials including wood, brick, plaster, glass, cement, plastics and ferrous or metallic materials derived from the construction of or the partial or total demolition of buildings or from any other source, that are combustible in nature in whole or in part. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 851.  PERMIT REQUIRED TO OPERATE DUMP.
	It shall be unlawful for any person not otherwise authorized by the City and County of San Francisco, to commence, proceed, or continue to operate a dump within the City and County of San Francisco without first having obtained a conditional use permit therefor annually, as hereinafter provided. 
	This permit shall be kept posted or available for inspection at the dump at all times when the dump is in operation. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 852.  APPLICATION AND FEE FOR PERMIT.
	Application for conditional use permit for the operation of a dump, signed by the owner or his authorized agent, shall be filed in the Central Permit Bureau of the Department upon a form furnished by the Department. The application shall contain the name, address, and telephone number of the applicant, the location and a brief description of the dump site, and such other appropriate information as the Director may require. It shall be accompanied by two copies of a map of the site, drawn to scale and showing the location, boundaries, the Assessor's block and lot numbers, the entrances and exits, and the area of the site in square feet or acres and hundredths of acres. 
	The application shall be accompanied by a fee of $100 to cover the cost of investigation of the proposed dump site, review of the application and issuance of the permit, if issued. Under no circumstances shall the fee or any part thereof be refunded. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 853.  APPLICATION AND FEE FOR RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
	Prior to the expiration of a permit, application may be made by the permittee, in the manner set forth in Section 852, for renewal of the permit. The application shall be accompanied by a fee of $25 to cover the cost of investigation, review and issuance of the renewal, if issued. Under no circumstances shall the fee or any part thereof be refunded. 
	The application shall be upon a form furnished by the Department. It shall identify the permit for the renewal of which application is being made and shall contain the statement that the applicant, the location and boundaries of the dump site and the other particulars set forth in the original application remain the same or it shall contain a statement of the differences. If, in the judgment of the Director, there is any significant change in the particulars, the application for renewal shall be denied without prejudice to the filing of an application for a permit under Section 852. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 854.  METHOD OF DISPOSAL AND OPERATION OF DUMP.
	Disposal of waste material at a dump shall be by the fill and cover or the cut and cover method and shall be done to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. 
	All voids in the waste material shall be filled with earth, sand or other inert materials, free of pieces of rock, concrete or the like having a maximum dimension in excess of six inches. The filling shall be adequate to prevent the unobstructed passage of rodents in the fill and to prevent ventilation that would permit combustion. 
	Firm compaction of all materials placed in the dump shall be continually effected by the use of bulldozers or other suitable equipment. 
	A seal of inert materials, of the kind specified in the paragraph second above, having a thickness of not less than six inches after compaction shall be deposited and maintained on the top, sides and face of the dumped waste material by the end of each day's operations. 
	The permittee, or an adult representative fully familiar with the requirements of this article, shall be present and in charge at the dump at all hours during the delivery and disposal of waste material. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 855.  FIRE PREVENTION.
	No fire hazard and no open burning, unless otherwise permitted by law, shall be permitted at the dump. The permittee shall extinguish forthwith any fire that may occur in the dump by spontaneous combustion or otherwise and shall provide and maintain at all times for such purpose the following equipment: water supplied by pipe from a City source, or other sources, together with attached fire hose to such piping, approved by the Chief of the Fire Department. Such piping and hose shall be extended from time to time so that all combustible material on the dump may be protected. The pipe, fire hose and other fire extinguishing appliances necessary to comply with the above, shall be installed and maintained as required by the Chief of the Fire Department. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 856.  FENCE AND BARRIER TO FLOATING DEBRIS.
	Dumps shall be enclosed by fences not less than six feet high and adequate to prevent unauthorized dumping and to prevent the blowing of rubbish from the dump. Fences shall be properly maintained and their gates shall be kept closed and locked at all hours when the dumps are not in operation. 
	No waste material shall be dumped in or allowed to reach water unless a fence or other barrier (other than a log boom) of such design, dimensions and strength necessary to prevent any such waste material from floating from the dump, has been provided and is continuously and properly maintained. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 857.  DUST PREVENTION.
	Dust shall not be permitted to blow from a dump to adjacent properties and the permittee shall by sprinkling with water or other means prevent such blowing of dust. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 858.  RODENT AND INSECT CONTROL.
	Inspection of the premises shall be made by the permittee at least once a week for rodent burrows, droppings or other evidence of rodents, and evidence of insect breeding. Any infestation shall be effectively controlled by the use of such poisons, gas traps, or insecticidal sprays as meet the approval of the Director of Public Health. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 859.  PROCESSING AND GRANTING OF PERMITS.
	Each application under this Article for a conditional use permit, or for the renewal of a permit, shall be referred by the Central Permit Bureau for approval to the Bureau of Engineering in the Department of Public Works, which Bureau shall refer the application for approval to the Department of City Planning, the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety, and the Department of Public Health. 
	Upon approval of the application by the said bureaus and departments, a nontransferable, conditional use permit shall be granted and issued by the Central Permit Bureau. If not approved by any one or more of the said bureaus and departments, the permit or renewal shall be denied. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 860.  VARIANCES.
	Upon the receipt of a written request for a variance by any holder of or applicant for a conditional use permit under this Article, the Director shall hold a public hearing on the matter, at which any and all interested persons, bureaus and departments shall be heard. 
	After such public hearing the Director shall have the power to grant and issue, through the Central Permit Bureau, variances from the requirements and provisions set forth in this Article, if he finds that compliance with said requirements and provisions will result in an arbitrary or unreasonable taking of property, or in the practical elimination of any lawful business, occupation or activity, in either case without a sufficient corresponding benefit or advantage to the people in the improvement or protection of the public health, safety or general welfare. In so doing he shall prescribe other or different requirements of not more onerous application with respect to the storage or disposal of waste material; provided, however, that no variance may permit or authorize the maintenance of a nuisance or be in conflict with other applicable law. 
	In determining under what conditions and to what extent a variance is necessary and will be permitted, the Director shall exercise a wide discretion in weighing the equities involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the residents of the City and County of San Francisco and to any lawful business, occupation or activity involved, resulting from requiring compliance with said requirements or resulting from the granting of a variance. 
	The Director in granting any variance may specify the time during which such order will be effective, in no event exceeding one year, but such variance may be continued from year to year without another hearing on the approval of the Director. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 861.  REVOCATION OF PERMITS AND VARIANCES.
	Upon written complaint to the Director regarding the manner of operation of a dump under a permit or variance, the Director may, after a public hearing of the matter, revoke any permit or variance issued pursuant to this Article upon his finding that the permittee has violated any of the provisions of this Article or of the terms of a permit or a variance. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 862.  NOTICE OF ISSUANCE OF PERMITS AND OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
	Within 10 days of the issuance of a permit under this Article, the Department shall publish a notice of such issuance for one day in the official newspaper of the City and County of San Francisco. Said notice shall include the name and address of the permittee, and shall identify the location of the dump by Assessor's block and lot numbers and by the names of the streets bounding or next adjacent to the dump. Said notice shall also state that the purpose of the dump is the disposal of waste building construction and demolition material, that the permit is issued pursuant to Article 17 of the Public Works Code, and that objections may be filed with the Board of Permit Appeals. 
	Not less than 10 days prior to a public hearing to be held pursuant to Sections 860 or Section 861, the Department shall publish a notice of such hearing for one day in the said official newspaper. Said notice shall state the day, hour and place when and where the hearing will be held, the location of the dump by the particulars set forth in the paragraph next above, and that the matter to be considered is the application for a variance or a complaint regarding the manner of operation of the dump, as the case may be. 
	When the hearing is to be held pursuant to Section 861, notice shall be served by the Department on the dump permittee, not less than 10 days prior to the hearing by personal service, or by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address shown on the permit or to such other address as may appear reasonable to the Director under the particular circumstances. Service shall be deemed completed when notice is deposited in the mail or served personally. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 863.  APPEALS TO BOARD OF PERMIT APPEALS.
	Applicants for or holders of conditional use permits to operate a dump hereunder, or any person, may appeal to the Board of Permit Appeals against the issuance or denial of a permit or variance or against any ruling of the Director by filing a protest in writing against such permit, variance, denial or ruling with the Clerk of the Board of Permit Appeals within 10 days of the date of publication of the notice prescribed in Sec. 862. 
	The decision of the Board of Permit Appeals shall be final on all appeals hereunder. 
(Added by Ord. 25- 61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 864.  APPLICABILITY OF MUNICIPAL CODE.
	The provisions of this Article supplement other provisions of the San Francisco Municipal Code and nothing in the Article shall be construed to supersede or waive any provision of said Code that is applicable to and not inconsistent with the regulatory control established in this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 865.  ENFORCEMENT.
	The Director shall enforce and administer all provisions of this Article, and for such purpose only, he or any member of his enforcement staff may enter upon, investigate and inspect any dump. 
	The Chief of the Fire Department, or his duly authorized representative, is hereby empowered to enter upon and make inspection of any dump, and exercise his authority relative to fire prevention, fire protection, fire spread control, and the protection of persons and property from fire. 
	The Director of Public Health, or his duly authorized representative, is hereby empowered to enter upon and make inspection of any dump and exercise his authority relative to public health. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 866.  VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
	A violation of any regulation contained in this Article shall constitute a misdemeanor. For each regulation violated, and for each day such violation continues, the person so violating shall be guilty of a separate and distinct offense. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 867.  SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
	If any provision of this Article, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of this Article, or the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
SEC. 868.  EFFECTIVE DATE.
	The provisions of this Article shall be in full force and effect 60 days after its enactment into law. 
(Added by Ord. 25-61, App. 2/9/61)
ARTICLE 18:
UTILITY FACILITIES
Sec. 900.Definitions.Sec. 901.PermitsConsent.Sec. 902.Locations and Space Assignments of Utility Facilities.Sec. 903.Poles to be Available for Installation of Traffic Signals, Etc.ResponsibilityRemovalInstallation of Street Lights on Trolley Poles.Sec. 904.Erection of Poles in Proximity to Light Poles Prohibited.Sec. 905.Location of Facilities to be Furnished.Sec. 906.Notice to Remove or Relocate Utility Facilities.Sec. 907.Owners Must Remove in Required Time.Sec. 908.FailureWork May Be Done by Director, Director of Transportation or General Manager.Sec. 909.Agreement with Owner or Operator.Sec. 910.Provision for Administration, Etc.Cost.Sec. 911.Underground Districts Designated.Sec. 912.Need for Underground District to be Determined.Sec. 913.Removal of Overhead Utility Facilities in Designated DistrictsExemptions.Sec. 914.Exemptions to Undergrounding.Sec. 915.Public HearingNotices.Sec. 916.Removal of Overhead Utility FacilitiesResponsibility forCost.Sec. 917.Responsibility of Property Owners.Sec. 918.Installation of Service Lateral.Sec. 919.Failure of Property Owner to Install Conduits.Sec. 920.Notice to Property Owner of Declaration of Public Nuisance.Sec. 921.Proof of Delivery or Mailing.Sec. 922.Hearing.Sec. 923.Issuance of a Director's Order.Sec. 924.Posting and Service of Order.Sec. 925.Forfeiture of Property Owners' Right To Do Work.Sec. 926.Assessment for Costs.Sec. 927.Report of Costs.Sec. 928.Hearing and Confirmation of Report for Special Assessment of Costs.Sec. 929.Costs of Abating the Public Nuisance.Sec. 930.Underground Public Nuisance Abatement Fund.Sec. 931.Compliance, Rescinding Order.Sec. 932.Penalty for Each Day Overhead Utility Facilities are Left Standing.Sec. 933.Temporary Use of Poles and Overhead Wires in Underground Districts.Sec. 934.Removal of Temporary Poles and Overhead Wires.Sec. 935.Duties of the DirectorAuthority to Remove Overhead Utility Facilities.Sec. 936.New ConstructionInstallation of Service.Sec. 937.Underground Utility Facilities to be Included in Construction of New Streets.Sec. 938.Director May Enter Into Agreement for Joint Construction.Sec. 939.Provision for Street Lighting in Plans.Sec. 940.Underground Wired Street Lighting, Fire Alarm and Police Communication Facilities to be Included in Plans for Construction of Streets.Sec. 941.Cost of Underground Wired Facilities for Street Lighting, Fire Alarm and Police Communication Systems.Sec. 942.Money to be Included in Fund When Work Done by City.Sec. 943.Underground Wired Facilities for Street Lighting, Fire Alarm and Police Communication Systems to Become Property of City.Sec. 944.Declaration of Public Nuisance.
SEC. 900.  DEFINITIONS.
	Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms in this Article shall be as follows: 
	(a)	"Board" shall mean the Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco.
	(b)	"City" shall mean the City and County of San Francisco.
	(c)	"City Administrator" means the City Administrator of the City and County of San Francisco.
	(d)	"Department" shall mean the Department of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco.
	(e)	"Director" shall mean the Director of the Department of Public Works of the City and County of San Francisco.
	(f)	"Director of Transportation" shall mean the Director of the Municipal Transportation Agency of the City and County of San Francisco. 
	(g)	"General Manager" shall mean the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission of the City and County of San Francisco.
	(h)	"Municipal Railway" shall mean the Municipal Railway of the City and County of San Francisco including the tracks, overhead lines and power feeder systems. 
	(i)	"Municipal Transportation Agency" shall mean the Municipal Transportation Agency of the City and County of San Francisco.
	(j)	"Owner or Operator" shall mean any person, firm, corporation, or public or private utility, owning, controlling or operating any utility facility upon, in, over or under the streets or places of the City and County of San Francisco. 
	(k)	"Places" shall mean any public park or pleasure ground and common which has been dedicated and accepted according to law.
	(l)	"Property" shall mean any real property in the City and County of San Francisco. Where any building or structure on real property is a condominium, planned development, community apartment, or stock corporation, "property" shall mean each separate unit. 
	(m)	"Property owner" shall mean any person, firm, association, limited liability corporation, corporation, or other legal entity owning or controlling real property in the City and County of San Francisco. Where any building or structure on real property is a condominium, planned development, community apartment, or stock corporation, "property owner" shall mean any person, firm, association, limited liability corporation, corporation, or other legal entity owning or controlling any unit. 
	(n)	"Public Utilities Commission" shall mean the Public Utilities Commission of the City and County of San Francisco.
	(o)	"Serving Company" shall mean the person, firm, corporation or utility supplying the electrical service for electric lighting, heat, power, telephone, telegraph, television signal, or any other type of electrical service. 
	(p)	"Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
	(q)	"Sidewalk" shall mean the area between the curb and the property line, as set forth in Ordinance 1061, entitled "Regulating the widths of Sidewalks" (approved December 18, 1903). 
	(r)	"Streets" shall mean the public area, between property lines, of any avenues, highways, boulevards, lanes, roads, parkways, freeways, alleys, crossings or intersections, and courts or other public ways. 
	(s)	"Underground" and "Undergrounding" shall mean the complete and permanent removal of the overhead utility facilities defined in subsection(s) hereof, except such utility facilities as are specifically exempted in Section 914; also, a complete installation beneath the surface of a street, public place, or stated area, of such utility facilities. 
	(t)	"Underground District" shall mean a street, or streets, public place, or stated area, within which overhead utility facilities, as defined in subsection (s) hereof, shall be prohibited and existing overhead utility facilities shall be removed or converted to an underground installation. New utility facilities, when installed, shall be a complete installation beneath the surface of the street, or streets, public place, or stated area, except such utility facilities as are specifically exempted in Section 914. 
	(u)	"Utility facility" shall mean pipes, wires, tracks, conduits, tunnels, poles or other overhead supporting structures, with any appurtenances, or any other structures of any nature, upon, in, over or under the streets or places of the City and County of San Francisco which are used for the purpose of supplying or conveying any services or substances within the limits of the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Amended by Ord. 445-84, App. 11/13/84; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 901.  PERMITS-CONSENT.
	Every owner or operator of any utility facility before installing, locating or relocating any utility facility shall file with the Director of Public Works a written application for a permit to do such work and obtain a written permit for the work as provided in Article 2.4. In accepting such permit the permittee expressly consents to regulation by any applicable rules or ordinances. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 902.  LOCATIONS AND SPACE ASSIGNMENTS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
	The Director may, as a condition of any permit issued pursuant to Section 901, require that the utility facility be installed in a specific location and may assign specific space for such utility facility in accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Department and applicable General Orders of the California Public Utilities Commission. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 903.  POLES TO BE AVAILABLE FOR INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC SIGNALS, ETC.-RESPONSIBILITY-REMOVAL-INSTALLATION OF STREET LIGHTS ON TROLLEY POLES.
	The City reserves the right to attach to any utility pole for which a permit has been or is to be issued in accordance with Section 901 of this Article, any traffic signal, fire alarm or police communication facilities, or equipment necessary for the normal operation thereof. Notice in writing shall first be given by the Director stating the City's intention to attach thereto the required facilities or other equipment. The owner of the pole shall not be responsible for any damages to any facilities of the City mounted on the pole, unless such damages proximately caused by the negligent act or omission of the owner of the pole. The Director shall have the traffic signal, fire alarm, police communication facilities or other equipment, removed from a utility pole upon and within 30 days after receipt of written notice of the owner's intention to reconstruct, replace, or remove the utility pole. The Director further reserves the right, under the conditions and stipulations specified above, to attach, as required, any street light and necessary equipment therefore, to any trolley pole which may now exist or which may be installed pursuant to Section 901 of this Article. The City shall install and maintain all of its traffic signal, fire alarm, police communication, street lighting or other equipment on any utility pole in conformity with all applicable General Orders of the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 904.  ERECTION OF POLES IN PROXIMITY TO LIGHT POLES PROHIBITED.
	It shall be unlawful to erect any pole on the streets or sidewalks of the City at a point which is situated nearer than 10 feet to a pole on which is supported a lamp maintained by said City for lighting the public streets or any traffic control device. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 905.  LOCATION OF FACILITIES TO BE FURNISHED.
	Every owner or operator using, controlling or having an interest in any utility facility upon, in, or under the surface of any street, sidewalk or other public place shall provide a copy of the record of location of any such facility upon request from the City Engineer. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 906.  NOTICE TO REMOVE OR RELOCATE UTILITY FACILITIES.
	(a)	Whenever any public work is authorized by the Board to be done under the supervision of the Director upon, in, over or under any of the streets, the Director, before the commencement of the work, shall notify in writing any owner or operator having utility facilities of any nature upon, in, over or under the streets to remove or adjust so much of his or their facilities as will allow the prosecution of the public work. The Notice shall be accompanied by a copy of the plans and specifications for the authorized public work showing the location of the work in the streets and describing the same. The Notice shall specify a time within which all affected utility facilities must be removed or adjusted. 
	(b)	The evolution of urban rail, trolley coach and motor bus passenger systems from private operations under franchise operating without tax subsidies to publicly owned and operated systems under federal, state and local policies mandating intra-city passenger service at revenue levels which require a substantial measure of tax support, the paramount right of the people as a whole to use the public street, and the level of service provided being essential to the circulation, health, safety, comfort and welfare of people in an urban setting, and the need for improved transportation systems to meet increasing demand for development and maintenance of an adequate, safe and efficient transportation system requires that this service be recognized and defined as a governmental activity within the City's police powers. Accordingly, whenever any public work relating to the Municipal Railway is authorized by the Municipal Transportation Agency to be done under the supervision of the Director of Transportation upon, in, over or under any of the streets, the Director of Transportation, before the commencement of the work, shall notify in writing any owner or operator having utility facilities of any nature upon, in, over or under the streets to remove or adjust so much of his or their facilities as will allow the prosecution of the public work. The notice shall be accompanied by a copy of the plans and specifications for the authorized public work showing the location of the work in the streets and describing the same. The notice shall specify a time within which all affected utility facilities must be removed or adjusted. 
	(c)	The Public Utilities Commission owns and operates certain utility facilities in the City and County of San Francisco that provide essential services that are necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare. Accordingly, whenever any public work upon, in, over or under any of the streets relating to the Public Utilities Commission is authorized to be done under the supervision of the General Manager, the General Manager, before the commencement of the work, shall notify in writing any owner or operator having utility facilities of any nature upon, in, over or under the streets to remove or adjust so much of his or their facilities as will allow the prosecution of the public work. The notice shall be accompanied by a copy of the plans and specifications for the authorized public work showing the location of the work in the streets and describing the same. The notice shall specify a time within which all affected utility facilities must be removed or adjusted. 
(Amended by Ord. 445-84, App. 11/13/84; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 907.  OWNERS MUST REMOVE IN REQUIRED TIME.
	Any owner or operator having utility facilities upon, in, over or under the streets upon, in, over or under which any public work is authorized to be done, shall, upon receipt of a Notice pursuant to Section 906, and at his expense, cause to be removed or to be adjusted within the time specified in the Notice, so much of the affected utility facilities belonging to or under the control of such owner or operator as will allow the authorized work to be prosecuted according to the plans and specifications therefor. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 908.  FAILURE-WORK MAY BE DONE BY DIRECTOR, DIRECTOR OF TRANSPORTATION OR GENERAL MANAGER.
	(a)	If any owner or operator except a City agency or department shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the requirements set forth in a notice issued pursuant to Section 906(a) then, and in that event, the Director shall cause to be removed or be adjusted so much of the utility facilities as may be required for the prosecution of the said authorized public work according to the plans and specifications for the work; and the incidental expenses incurred in the removal or adjustment shall be chargeable to the owner or operator failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with the requirements of the Notice, and may be recovered in an action at law brought in the name of the City against such owner or operator. 
	(b)	If any owner or operator except a City agency or department shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the requirements set forth in a notice issued pursuant to Section 906(b) then, and in that event, the Director of Transportation shall cause to be removed or adjusted so much of the utility facilities as may be required for the prosecution of the said authorized public work according to the plans and specifications for the work; and the incidental expenses incurred in the removal or adjustment shall be chargeable to the owner or operator failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with the requirements of the Notice, and may be recovered in an action at law brought in the name of the City against such owner or operator. 
	(c)	If any owner or operator except a City agency or department shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the requirements set forth in a notice issued pursuant to Section 906(c) then, and in that event, the General Manager shall cause to be removed or adjusted so much of the utility facilities as may be required for the prosecution of the said authorized public work according to the plans and specifications therefore the work; and the incidental expenses incurred in the removal or adjustment shall be chargeable to the owner or operator failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with the requirements of the notice, and may be recovered in an action at law brought in the name of the City against such owner or operator. 
(Amended by Ord. 445-84, App. 11/13/84; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 909.  AGREEMENT WITH OWNER OR OPERATOR.
	(a)	The Director, with the approval of the City Administrator, may enter into an agreement with the owner or operator of any utility facility which may require support, protection and working around in order to successfully prosecute the construction of public work, to have any such support, protection and working around including as a part of a contract for public work. The cost of any such support, protection and working around a utility facility shall be borne by the owner or operator thereof. 
	(b)	The Director of Transportation may enter into an agreement with the owner or operator of any utility facility which may require support, protection and working around in order to successfully prosecute the construction of public work, to have any such support, protection and working around included as a part of a contract for public work. The cost of any such support, protection and working around a utility facility shall be borne by the owner or operator thereof. 
	(c)	The General Manager, with the approval of the Public Utilities Commission, may enter into an agreement with the owner or operator of any utility facility which may require support, protection and working around in order to successfully prosecute the construction of public work, to have any such support, protection and working around included as a part of a contract for public work. The cost of any such support, protection and working around a utility facility shall be borne by the owner or operator thereof. 
(Amended by Ord. 445-84, App. 11/13/84; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 910.  PROVISION FOR ADMINISTRATION, ETC.-COST.
	(a)	Pursuant to Section 909(a) the Department will provide administration and other necessary services during the progress of the construction. The estimated cost of administration, preparation and supervision of the contract attributable to the work, shall be included in the agreement. 
	(b)	Pursuant to Section 909(b) the Municipal Transportation Agency will provide administration and other necessary service during the progress of the construction. The estimated cost of administration, preparation and supervision of the contract attributable to the work, shall be included in the agreement. 
	(c)	Pursuant to Section 909(c) the Public Utilities Commission will provide administration and other necessary service during the progress of the construction. The estimated cost of administration, preparation and supervision of the contract attributable to the work, shall be included in the agreement. 
(Amended by Ord. 445-84, App. 11/13/84; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 911.  UNDERGROUND DISTRICTS DESIGNATED.
	For the purpose of removing poles and placing wires underground, the City shall be divided into districts designated as Underground Districts, which Underground Districts are more particularly described in Order No. 214 (Second Series) and amendments thereto and other ordinances on file in the Office of the Clerk of the Board, in the offices of the Director, and collected in a volume entitled "Legislated Underground Districts" and maintained by the Department. The yearly rate to be accomplished by converting from overhead facilities to underground construction shall be in accordance with the limitation imposed by the funds allocated by the Serving Companies for such conversion, as ordered and required by the California Public Utilities Commission. 
(Amended by Ord. 223-83, App. 4/28/83; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 912.  NEED FOR UNDERGROUND DISTRICT TO BE DETERMINED.
	Each Underground District shall be established by Ordinance on streets, public places, or stated areas having existing poles and overhead utility facilities, when required for reasons of public necessity, health, safety, or welfare, and when in the public interest for one or more of the following reasons: 
	(a)	To avoid or eliminate an unusually heavy concentration of overhead distribution facilities;
	(b)	The street, road or right-of-way is extensively used by the general public and carries a heavy volume of pedestrian or vehicular traffic; 
	(c)	The street, road or right-of-way adjoins or passes through a civic area, public recreation area, or an area of unusual scenic interest to the general public; 
	(d)	In connection with a public street improvement, street reconstruction between property lines, street widening or realignment.
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 913.  REMOVAL OF OVERHEAD UTILITY FACILITIES IN DESIGNATED DISTRICTS-EXEMPTIONS.
	The removal of all existing surface and overhead utility facilities shall be completed in accordance with the Department of Public Works program. On/or after the date of completion in accordance with said program, no surface or overhead utility facilities shall be erected or installed for any purpose in any underground district, except as are exempted in this Article. 
(Amended by Ord. 224-83, App. 4/28/83)
SEC. 914.  EXEMPTIONS TO UNDERGROUNDING.
	The following are expressly exempted from the provisions of this Article, with respect to undergrounding: 
	Trolley poles and trolley contact wires used exclusively for the transmission of electrical power for transit vehicles; single primary distribution circuits and single telephone, telegraph or other cables which cross designated districts or parts thereof not further than to the extent of the width of a single street; terminal cabinets and meter boxes when the size and location have been approved by the Director. The feeders or electrical service conductors for the trolley contact wires shall conform to the undergrounding requirements of this Article. 
	Additional variances may be granted by the Director. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 915.  PUBLIC HEARING-NOTICES.
	Public hearings shall be held by the Director before the establishment of an underground district. Notices of the public hearing shall be conspicuously posted along all the streets within the district, and each affected property owner and owner or operator in such district shall be notified by mail of the time and place of the hearing, in accordance with the provisions of Section 920. Written protests, objections or other comments regarding the proposal must be filed with the Director before the date of the hearing, or may be made in person during the hearing or on the day to which action on the proposal may be postponed. If the underground district is approved by the Director at this hearing, legislation will be forwarded to the Board of Supervisors for enactment of an ordinance establishing the district. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 916.  REMOVAL OF OVERHEAD UTILITY FACILITIES-RESPONSIBILITY FOR-COST.
	The removal of overhead utility facilities shall be the responsibility of and be done by and at the cost of the owner or operator so owning, controlling, operating or using same. Before the underground installation of any utility facilities a permit for such installation shall first be secured pursuant to Section 901 hereof. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 917.  RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
	In any district that the Board may designate as an Underground District, the owner of a building or other structure will provide, as necessary, at his expense, all conduit and associated equipment required to receive utility service between the facilities of the Serving Company and the terminal facility in or on the building or structure, and all trenching, excavation, backfilling and paving necessary to allow the installation of the service lateral. The installation of conduit or other enclosures within the building or structure, from the terminal facility, shall be made by the owner in accordance with the provisions of the San Francisco Electrical Code. The terminal facility shall be located at a point approved in accordance with the rules adopted by the Director of Public Works and satisfactory to the Serving Company. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 918.  INSTALLATION OF SERVICE LATERAL.
	The Serving Company shall install the service lateral from its distribution line to the terminal facility of the building being served, and provide the conductor or conductors for such service, except as may be agreed between the owner and the Serving Company. Underground construction by the Serving Company shall be accomplished in accordance with the applicable provisions of the San Francisco Electrical Code and the rules and regulations of the California Public Utilities Commission. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 919.  FAILURE OF PROPERTY OWNER TO INSTALL CONDUITS.
	In the event of failure on the part of a property owner to perform the required construction in accordance with the provisions of Section 917 within 30 days after receipt of a notice to provide such facilities, in order to permit completion of the service reconnection and the removal of the overhead wires and conductors by the Serving Company or Companies, the Director may order the disconnection and removal of any and all overhead electrical or other service wires or conductors supplying electrical or other service to such building or structure. In the event of such failure by the property owner to act, the Director-may, at his discretion, perform the work required of property owners by Section 917, and is authorized to use and employ whatever labor, materials and devices may be necessary to effectually carry out the provisions of this Article. The total cost of the labor, materials and devices necessary for the performance of such work shall be paid by the owner of the building or structure for which such work was required. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 920.  NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER OF DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
	(a)	When the Director has determined that a property owner has failed to perform the required construction in accordance with the provisions of Section 917 within the time required by Section 919, the Director shall notify the property owner that the property has been declared a public nuisance and order that such work be done ("Director's Notice"). One copy of the Director's Notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the building or structure and one copy of the Director's Notice shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail at the address of such property owner as it appears on the last equalized assessment roll of the County or at the address to which the most recent real property tax bill for said building or structure was mailed by the Tax Collector. If no such address appears on the assessment roll of the County or of the Tax Collector, then a copy of the Director's Notice shall be addressed to the property owner at the address of the building or structure involved. The failure of the property owner to receive the Director's Notice shall not affect in any manner the validity of any proceedings taken hereunder including the sale of the property. 
	(b)	The Director's Notice shall contain the following information:
		(1)	The street address of the property sufficient for identification.
		(2)	A statement that the property has been declared a public nuisance pursuant to Public Works Code  944.
		(3)	The work required to be done at the property to receive utility services at a building or structure on the property, as well as an estimate of the cost of such work if readily ascertainable. 
		(4)	The date by which the work required is to be commenced and completed by the property owner.
		(5)	A statement that, in the event that the property owner fails to complete the work by the required date, the Director will take action to abate the public nuisance. 
		(6)	A statement of the manner in which the Director will abate the public nuisance by installing the necessary facilities on the property, as well as an estimate of the cost of such work if readily ascertainable. 
		(7)	A statement that low-income property owners should contact the Mayor's Office of Housing to determine whether they are eligible for a grant to hire a licensed electrician to perform the work required on their properties. 
		(8)	A statement that the City will hold the property owner responsible for all of the City's costs to enforce any of the requirements of this Article and to abate the public nuisance, including the cost of the required work, the Department's administrative and supervisory costs, and any costs incurred by other City departments including the City Attorney's Office. 
		(9)	A statement that the City will make the City's costs a special assessment against the property if the property owner fails to pay the City's costs. 
		(10)	The time, date and place during which the Director will conduct a hearing to determine whether the Director should abate the public nuisance by ordering that such work be done and assessing costs against the property for abating the nuisance. 
		(11)	A statement that the property owner may attend the hearing and provide evidence why the Director should not abate the public nuisance by ordering that such work be done or assess costs against the property for abating the nuisance. 
		(12)	Such additional information as the Director deems necessary to notify property owners of their duties and obligations to comply with any of the requirements of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 921.  PROOF OF DELIVERY OR MAILING.
	(a)	The person mailing the Director's Notice to a property owner as provided in Section 920 shall file an affidavit or declaration thereof under penalty of perjury with the Director certifying to the time and manner in which such notice was given. He shall also file therewith any receipt card of such notice by certified mail. 
	(b)	The notice of hearing shall be posted and served at least 10 days prior to the time set for the hearing.
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 922.  HEARING.
	(a)	The hearing shall be held at the time and place designated in the Director's Notice to determine whether the Director should abate the public nuisance by ordering that such work be done and assess costs against the property for abating the nuisance. For good cause the hearing may be continued by the Director to a later time. Subject to the procedures prescribed by the Director for the orderly conduct of the hearing, all persons having an interest in the building or structure may present evidence materially bearing on the case for consideration by the Director. 
	(b)	The Director shall appoint a hearing officer to conduct the hearing by taking testimony and other evidence from the Department, the property owner and any other interested parties. The hearing officer shall have the same authority as the Director to hear and decide the case and to make any order hereinafter provided for including abating the public nuisance by ordering that the work be done and assessing costs against the property for abating the nuisance. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 923.  ISSUANCE OF A DIRECTOR'S ORDER.
	(a)	At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer may issue an order abating the public nuisance by requiring that the work be done and assessing costs against the property for abating the nuisance ("Director's Order"). 
	(b)	The Director's Order shall set forth the following:
		(1)	The street address of the property where the Director has ordered the public nuisance to be abated sufficient for identification.
		(2)	A statement of the work required to be done to abate the public nuisance.
		(3)	A statement that the property owner has 30 days from the date of the Director's Order to abate the public nuisance by completing the required work. 
		(4)	The date and time on which the Department will enter the property to do the work required to abate the public nuisance.
		(5)	A statement of the costs to be assessed against the property to abate the public nuisance, including the costs incurred to date and any additional costs to be incurred if the required work is not done by the date ordered by the Director. 
		(6)	A statement that the property may be sold by the Tax Collector after three years for unpaid delinquent assessments.
	(c)	Upon written application of the property owner showing a reasonable cause for any delay, the Director may grant a reasonable extension of time not to exceed 30 days within which the work required to abate the public nuisance must be completed. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 924.  POSTING AND SERVICE OF ORDER.
	A copy of the Director's Order shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the building or structure and shall be served in the manner prescribed in Section 920 upon all persons to whom the notice of hearing is required to be served, and a copy shall be recorded in the office of the Recorder of the City and County. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 925.  FORFEITURE OF PROPERTY OWNERS' RIGHT TO DO WORK.
	Upon a property owner's failure to comply with a Director's Order issued under Section 923 the property owner shall be deemed to have forfeited all right to do such work on said building or other structure except as the Director may otherwise allow. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 926.  ASSESSMENT FOR COSTS.
	(a)	The Director shall take action to have the costs of abating the public nuisance assessed against the property upon which said building or other structure is situated. Such costs shall include;, (i) the cost of performing the required construction in accordance with the provisions of Section 917; (ii) an amount equal to 15 percent of such cost to cover the cost to the City for administration and supervision of the work required; and (iii) any costs incurred by any other City department, including the City Attorney's Office, in furtherance of the work done or related to any action, administrative proceeding, or special proceeding to abate the public nuisance. 
	(b)	In any action, administrative proceeding, or special proceeding to abate the public nuisance, the prevailing party may seek recovery of attorneys' fees; provided, however, that the recovery of such fees is available only if the City, at the initiation of the individual action or proceeding, elects to seek recovery of its own attorneys' fees. In no action, administrative proceeding or special proceeding shall an award of attorneys' fees to the prevailing party exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the City in the action or proceeding. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 927.  REPORT OF COSTS.
	The Department shall keep an account of the cost of all work done or caused to be done by the Department or by contract to which shall have been added the 15 percent administrative and supervisory cost and any costs incurred by any other City department and shall render an itemized report in writing to the Board of Supervisors showing such cost. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 928.  HEARING AND CONFIRMATION OF REPORT FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
	(a)	At the time fixed for receiving and considering said report, the Board of Supervisors shall hear the same, together with any objections which may be raised by any property owner liable to be assessed for the cost described in said report, and thereupon may make such modifications in the report as the Board deems necessary, after which by motion or resolution said report shall be confirmed. The costs assessed for abating a public nuisance at the property, as confirmed by the Board of Supervisors, shall constitute a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on said property for the amount of said assessment. After confirmation of said report, a copy thereof shall be transmitted to the Assessor and to the Tax Collector of the City and County, whereupon it shall be the duty of said officers to add the amount of said assessment to the next regular bill for taxes levied against said property for municipal purposes, and thereafter said amount shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary City and County taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure under foreclosure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for ordinary taxes of the City and County of San Francisco. 
	(b)	Notwithstanding any provision contained in this Article making the costs assessed for abating a public nuisance at the property a special assessment against the property upon which the same exists, said cost, as confirmed by the Board of Supervisors and to the extent that the same has not been paid to the City, shall be a personal obligation of the property owner and his heirs, successors and assigns, and said owner and his heirs, successors and assigns shall be liable to the City and County of San Francisco for the payment thereof. 
	(c)	If any property to which the cost of the abatement relates has been transferred or conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a lien of a bona fide encumbrancer for value has been created and attached thereon, prior to the date on which the first installment of taxes would become delinquent, then the cost of the abatement shall not result in a lien against the property, but shall instead by transferred to the unsecured roll for collection. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 929.  COSTS OF ABATING THE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
	(a)	Whenever the Director, pursuant to authority conferred by this Article, shall abate a public nuisance on a property by causing the required construction in accordance with the provisions of Section 917 to be performed by the Department or pursuant to contract, or take any other action to enforce the requirements of this Article, the cost thereof shall be paid from the "Underground Public Nuisance Abatement Fund" and assessed against the property upon which the particular building or other structure is located. 
	(b)	The assessment charged under Section 928 may be paid either in one lump sum payment or in 10 installments, which would be comprised of biannual payments during the five-year period. If the property owner chooses to pay the assessments in installments, a six percent interest charge shall be added annually. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; amended by Ord. 305-97, App. 7/28/97; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 930.  UNDERGROUND PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT FUND.
	(a)	A special revolving fund, to be known as the "Underground Public Nuisance Abatement Fund," is hereby created for the purpose of defraying the costs and expenses which may be incurred by the Director to abate a public nuisance at a property or to enforce any of the other requirements of this Article. The Underground Public Nuisance Abatement Fund is a Category 8 fund under Section 10.100-1 of the San Francisco Administrative Code. 
	(b)	The Board of Supervisors may by transfer or appropriation, establish or increase the special revolving fund with such sums as it may deem necessary in order to expedite the abatement of a public nuisance at a property or the enforcement of any of the other requirements of this Article. The special revolving fund shall be replenished with all funds collected under the proceedings herein provided for, either upon voluntary payments or as the result of sale of the property after delinquency, or otherwise. Balances remaining in the Underground Public Nuisance Abatement Fund at the close of any fiscal year shall be carried forward in such fund. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 931.  COMPLIANCE, RESCINDING ORDER.
	When the building or structure has been found to comply with requirements of the Director, the Director shall issue and record in the offices of the Recorder, City and County of San Francisco, an order rescinding his original order. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 932.  PENALTY FOR EACH DAY OVERHEAD UTILITY FACILITIES ARE LEFT STANDING.
	Any owner or operator who, after the time specified by ordinance for each designated underground district shall neglect to take down and remove the overhead utility facilities, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $200 for every day any part of such overhead utility facilities are left standing. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 933.  TEMPORARY USE OF POLES AND OVERHEAD WIRES IN UNDERGROUND DISTRICTS.
	In cases requiring the temporary use of poles and overhead wires for the purpose of reporting conventions, meetings or other public gatherings, or in cases of emergency, permits may be granted by the Director for the erection of such facilities for a period not exceeding 60 days in each case, conditioned upon erection and maintenance in conformity with the Rules and Regulations of the Department. The Director, at his discretion, may grant extensions beyond 60 days if the emergency or special conditions still exist. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 934.  REMOVAL OF TEMPORARY POLES AND OVERHEAD WIRES.
	After the expiration of a temporary permit issued pursuant to Section 933 and the emergency or special condition no longer exists, the person, firm, partnership, corporation or public utility shall remove all poles and overhead wires from the underground district in which such temporary use was permitted. Failure to comply with the provisions of this Section shall result in the same penalties as are specified in Section 932 of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 935.  DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR-AUTHORITY TO REMOVE OVERHEAD UTILITY FACILITIES.
	The Director shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this Article and the Rules and Regulations of the Department relative to and affecting the provisions of this Article, which may from time to time be issued by the Director. The Director, after the expiration of the time specified in Section 913, shall have the authority to order the removal, taking down and carrying away of any and all overhead utility facilities as may not have been previously removed by the Serving Company, as required by the provisions of this Article with respect to Underground Districts. The Director is hereby given authority to use and employ whatever labor, materials and devices may be necessary to effectually carry out the provisions of this Article. The total cost of the labor, materials and devices necessary for the taking down and removing of such overhead utility facilities shall be paid by the Serving Company. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 936.  NEW CONSTRUCTION-INSTALLATION OF SERVICE.
	No permit shall be issued for construction of any new building or structure in any legislated underground district unless all electric, communication or other similar services are installed and provisions are made for receiving underground service when such underground service becomes available. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 937.  UNDERGROUND UTILITY FACILITIES TO BE INCLUDED IN CONSTRUCTION OF NEW STREETS.
	The Director shall require that all utility facilities and appurtenances necessary to transmit, conduct, or convey electrical energy for the purpose of electric light, heat, power, telegraph, telephone, television signal, communication, or any other electrical service, shall be installed underground by any affected Serving Company when new streets are constructed. Underground distribution and service shall be required for approval of any subdivision map by the City. Such underground installations shall be complete installations as defined in Section 900(k) and (1). 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 938.  DIRECTOR MAY ENTER INTO AGREEMENT FOR JOINT CONSTRUCTION.
	The Director, with the approval of the City Administrator, may enter into an agreement with owners or operators of any utility facilities required to be installed underground in any street area by any Ordinance or Code, for the purpose of constructing the utility facilities jointly with public governmental facilities under a public contract. Said owner or operator shall, under such agreement, proceed in accordance with the provisions of Section 910 of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72; Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
SEC. 939.  PROVISION FOR STREET LIGHTING IN PLANS.
	The Public Utilities Commission shall determine the intensity of illumination, number and spacing of lighting facilities and other details necessary to secure satisfactory street lighting. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 940.  UNDERGROUND WIRED STREET LIGHTING, FIRE ALARM AND POLICE COMMUNICATION FACILITIES TO BE INCLUDED IN PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
	The Director shall require that provision for underground wired street lighting, fire alarm and police communication facilities, including standards, all associated wires, cables, conduits, junction boxes, services, and all connections therewith, be included in all plans, maps, plats and specifications for the initial construction of streets. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 941.  COST OF UNDERGROUND WIRED FACILITIES FOR STREET LIGHTING, FIRE ALARM AND POLICE COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS.
	The cost of underground wired facilities for street lighting, fire alarm and police communication systems shall be borne by the person, firm or corporation paying for the grading, paving, sidewalks and other street construction. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 942.  MONEY TO BE INCLUDED IN FUND WHEN WORK DONE BY CITY.
	Money to cover the cost of underground wired street lighting facilities, fire alarm and police communication systems associated with work being done by the City shall be included in the fund provided for the street construction or reconstruction. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 943.  UNDERGROUND WIRED FACILITIES FOR STREET LIGHTING, FIRE ALARM AND POLICE COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS TO BECOME PROPERTY OF CITY.
	All underground wired street lighting, fire alarm and police communication system facilities, including but not limited to, standards and all associated wires, cables, conduits, junction boxes, services, and all connections therewith, in streets constructed or reconstructed by individuals, firms, corporations, or assessment districts, shall become the property of the City on final completion and acceptance of the work, except when such facilities are installed and are to be owned and maintained by a public utility. 
	When accepted by the City, City-owned street lighting shall be under the jurisdiction of the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission for maintenance and operation. The Fire Alarm and Police Communication systems shall be under the jurisdiction of the San Francisco Department of Electricity for maintenance and operation. 
(Added by Ord. 139-72, App. 5/26/72)
SEC. 944.  DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
	Any property in which the property owner has failed to comply with an order issued by the Director under Section 923 is declared to be a public nuisance and the City may take all lawful action to abate the nuisance. 
(Added by Ord. 140-07, File No. 070621, App. 6/22/2007)
ARTICLE 19:
PUBLIC TELEPHONE BOOTHS ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS
Sec. 950.Director of Public Works Authorized to Issue Permits.Sec. 950.1.DefinitionsPay Phone Service Provider; Permittee.Sec. 950.2.Department to Adopt Regulations.Sec. 951.Investigation and InspectionRules and Regulations.Sec. 952.Unlawful Without Permits.Sec. 953.Application for Permit.Sec. 954.Permit and Inspection Fee.Sec. 955.Permit.Sec. 956.Separate Permits Required for Street or Sidewalk Excavation and Electrical Work.Sec. 957.Permittee Shall Make Payments to the City and County of San Francisco.Sec. 958.Nonliability of San Francisco; Hold Harmless Clause.Sec. 959.Permittee Shall Maintain Insurance in Protection of San Francisco.Sec. 960.Restoration of Sidewalks and Streets to a Condition Satisfactory to the Department of Public Works.Sec. 961.Board of Supervisors Right of Approval and Revocation.
SEC. 950.  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE PERMITS.
	The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and empowered to issue permits, revocable at his or her discretion, to a pay phone service provider for the installation and maintenance of public pay telephones on public sidewalks within the City and County of San Francisco. In considering the issuance of permits for such public pay telephones, the Director of Public Works shall give due regard to recommendations of the Interdepartmental Staff Committee on Traffic and Transportation (ISCOTT). 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70; amended by Ord. 287-92, App. 9/16/92)
SEC. 950.1.  DEFINITIONS-PAY PHONE SERVICE PROVIDER; PERMITTEE.
	(a)	A "pay phone service provider" shall mean any person, firm or corporation who owns pay phones or manages and operates a business that directly provides pay phone service. 
	(b)	For purposes of this Article, a "permittee" shall mean a pay phone service provider who holds a valid permit granted by the City and County, through its Director of Public Works, to install and maintain public pay phones on public sidewalks in the City and County of San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 287-92, App. 9/16/92)
SEC. 950.2.  DEPARTMENT TO ADOPT REGULATIONS.
	(a)	The Director of Public Works shall adopt such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary for the public welfare regarding the locations of public pay telephones. Such regulations may include, but not be limited to, a requirement that no person, firm or corporation may install or maintain a public telephone in any location when such location, use or maintenance endangers the safety of persons or property, unreasonably interferes with public utility purposes, public transportation purposes, or other government use, or when such public telephone unreasonably interferes with or impedes the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, the ingress or egress of any residence, place of business, any legally parked or stopped vehicles, use of poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, police or fire callboxes, transit shelters, sidewalk elevators, mailboxes, handicapped ramps, or other facilities permitted at or near the proposed location. 
	(b)	Upon adoption of such rules and regulations by the Director of Public Works, copies of the rules and regulations shall be kept on file at the Department of Public Works and shall be made available to any person upon request. 
(Added by Ord. 287-92, App. 9/16/92)
SEC. 951.  INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION-RULES AND REGULATIONS.
	The Director of Public Works shall make such investigations and inspections as he deems necessary or appropriate to the issuance of permits hereunder, shall prescribe the procedures to be followed in the issuance of permits and installation, and shall have the power and authority to adopt and enforce such rules and regulations as he deems necessary or appropriate to the proper location, design, operation and maintenance of public telephone booths on sidewalks under the conditions and restrictions herein imposed. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70)
SEC. 952.  UNLAWFUL WITHOUT PERMITS.
	It shall be unlawful to install and maintain any public telephone on a public sidewalk in the City and County of San Francisco without first obtaining the permit to do so and paying the fees and deposits required for said permit in accordance with the provisions of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70; amended by Ord. 287-92, App. 9/16/92)
SEC. 953.  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
	A separate written application for a permit is required for the installation and maintenance of a public telephone or group of telephones to be installed on the public sidewalk fronting each lot or property under one ownership. Any subsequent installation of additional telephones fronting the same lot or property shall require a separate application and permit. Application for permit shall be filed with the Director of Public Works and shall contain the name and residence or business address of the person, firm or corporation making such application, a brief description of the location, the number and type of each public telephone to be installed and maintained, and such other appropriate information as the Director may require. Each application shall be accompanied by two copies of a map of the site, drawn to scale and showing the location of the proposed installation, the location of all surface facilities such as poles, hydrants, street lighting electroliers, vehicular parking or stopping zones, parking meters, underground facilities, building entrances, driveway entrances and the width of the sidewalk. Each application described herein shall also be accompanied by a general deposit in the sum of $500 for each public telephone included in the application, or in lieu thereof, the application shall be accompanied by a bond executed and filed with the Department of Public Works in a penal sum equal to the amount of $500 per telephone included in the application. Said bond shall be with a surety company authorized to do business in the State of California as surety thereon, running in favor of the City and County of San Francisco, conditioned that the applicant shall make all payments required to be made under and pursuant to this Article, and while such general deposit is maintained at the said sum of $500 per telephone or while no breach of condition of said bond shall occur said applicant shall be required to comply with all of the permitting and other provisions of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70; amended by Ord. 287-92, App. 9/16/92)
SEC. 954.  PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEE.
	All required inspections in connection with public telephones on public sidewalks shall be made by the Department of Public Works at the expense of the permittee. In addition to maintaining the deposit or bond required by Section 953 of this Article, the permittee shall pay to the Department of Public Works a fee to be set by the Director of Public Works in an amount reasonably calculated to cover the estimated cost of administration and inspection services, including salary and overhead costs incurred by the Department of Public Works in connection with issuance of the public telephone permit. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70; amended by Ord. 287-92, App. 9/16/92)
SEC. 955.  PERMIT.
	Upon approval of an application by the Director of Public Works, a permit shall be issued by the Department of Public Works for each approved installation in a form prescribed by said Director. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70)
SEC. 956.  SEPARATE PERMITS REQUIRED FOR STREET OR SIDEWALK EXCAVATION AND ELECTRICAL WORK.
	A separate permit is required in accordance with the provisions of Article 18 of the San Francisco Public Works Code, before any excavation is made in street or sidewalk for the purpose of installing pipes or conduits. A separate permit is required for electrical work, in accordance with the San Francisco Electrical Code. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70)
SEC. 957.  PERMITTEE SHALL MAKE PAYMENTS TO THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO.
	(a)	The permittee shall pay monthly to the City and County of San Francisco in lawful currency of the United States an amount of money equal to the greater of $75, or 35 percent of the total gross receipts generated by the usage of each and every public telephone installed and maintained under the provisions of this Article. Such payments shall be made monthly by every permittee to the Controller of the City and County of San Francisco together with a full, true and correct statement of all its gross receipts from each and every public telephone for the preceding month. The permittee shall file with the Director of Public Works annual reports covering each 12-month period, ending June 30th. Such reports shall be submitted no later than 30 calendar days after the end of each period and shall include the total number of public telephones in operation, the gross receipts and the total amount paid to the City and County of San Francisco for the last expired period. 
	(b)	The permittee shall at all times keep and maintain a full, true and correct account of its gross receipts, of every kind and nature, including noncoin receipts and revenues from service enhancements, from each and every public telephone installed and maintained under the provisions of this Article, which said accounts, and all books, records, correspondence and documents of the company in connection therewith shall at all times be open to audit, inspection and examination by the Controller of said City and County of San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70; amended by Ord. 287-92, App. 9/16/92; Ord. 139-98, App. 5/1/98)
SEC. 958.  NONLIABILITY OF SAN FRANCISCO; HOLD HARMLESS CLAUSE.
	The permittee shall indemnify, save harmless and defend the City and County of San Francisco, and all of its officers, agents and employees, against any and all claims and liability for injury to or death of any person, or damage to any property arising out of any acts or omissions in connection with the installation or maintenance of any public telephone on the sidewalks of the City and County of San Francisco on the part of the permittee, its officers, agents or employees, or any contractor or subcontractor retained by or on behalf of it, or the officers, agents or employees of any of the same. The permittee shall further indemnify, save harmless and defend the City and County of San Francisco, and all of its officers, agents and employees against any and all claims and liability arising by reason of any claims or demands of contractors or subcontractors retained by or on behalf of the permittee, or by reason of any liens or other claims which may be filed by or on behalf of any of the same, or by, or on behalf of, any other person regarding the provisions of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70; amended by Ord. 287-92, App. 9/16/92)
SEC. 959.  PERMITTEE SHALL MAINTAIN INSURANCE IN PROTECTION OF SAN FRANCISCO.
	(a)	The permittee shall, at all times during the existence of any public telephone on the sidewalks of the City and County of San Francisco, maintain in force, furnish to the City and County of San Francisco and file with the Controller thereof, at its own expense, an insurance policy or policies, in protection of the City and County of San Francisco, its boards, commissions, officers, agents and employees, in a company or companies approved by the Controller and in form satisfactory to the City Attorney of the City and County of San Francisco, protecting the City and County of San Francisco and said persons against liability for loss or damages for personal injuries, bodily injuries, death or property damage resulting directly or indirectly from the operations of the permittee under this Article, with single liability limit of not less than $500,000 each occurrence applying to personal injuries, bodily injuries, death and property damage or a combination of such injuries. 
	(b)	The policy or policies shall be expanded to include contractual liability assumed under the provisions of this Article with respect to bodily injuries, personal injuries, death and property damage. Said policy or policies shall apply as primary insurance and shall stipulate that no other insurance effected by the City and County of San Francisco will be called on to contribute to a loss covered hereunder. Said policy or policies shall provide 30 days' notice to Controller, City and County of San Francisco, Room 109, City Hall, if the policy or policies should be cancelled or materially changed. 
	(c)	In lieu of an insurance policy or policies as specified above, the permittee may, subject to written approval of City's Controller, furnish satisfactory evidence of self-insurance and financial responsibility. The permits granted by the Director of Public Works for the installation and maintenance of public telephones shall automatically terminate upon the termination of such insurance. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70; amended by Ord. 287-92, App. 6/19/92)
SEC. 960.  RESTORATION OF SIDEWALKS AND STREETS TO A CONDITION SATISFACTORY TO THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
	(a)	In the event that a public telephone is discontinued in use at a particular location or installed without permit, or in the event that a permit is revoked or terminated, the installation or continued maintenance of said telephone shall be deemed unlawful pursuant to Section 952 of this Article, unless the permittee or pay phone service provider removes the telephone or telephones and associated wires, conduits and structures and restores the area to a condition satisfactory to the Department of Public Works within 10 days after receiving written notice from the Director of Public Works of the said unpermitted telephone. If said telephone was installed without a permit and is not removed as required by this Article, the owner of the immediately adjacent property to which the instrument is connected will be provided notice to remove the telephone and restore the area to satisfactory condition subject to the provisions of Public Works Code Section 706, et seq. 
	(b)	If said telephone was installed with a permit that has since been terminated or revoked, the permittee shall be provided notice to remove the telephone and shall be responsible on its bond for the cost of the removal of the telephone and the restoration of the area to good condition. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70; amended by Ord. 287-92, App. 9/16/92)
SEC. 961.  BOARD OF SUPERVISORS RIGHT OF APPROVAL AND REVOCATION.
	The Board of Supervisors shall have the right of approval and/or revocation of any permit for the installation and maintenance of public telephone booths on public sidewalks. 
(Added by Ord. 122-70, App. 4/17/70)
ARTICLE 20:
REPEALED
Editor's Note:
	Former Article 20, "Analyzing the Soil for Hazardous Wastes," was repealed in its entirety by Ord. 155-13. For current provisions relating to similar subject matter, see Health Code Article 22A.
SEC. 1000.  [REPEALED.]
(Added by Ord. 253-86, App. 6/27/86; amended by Ord. 53-98, App. 2/6/98; Ord. 35-99, App. 3/12/99; repealed by Ord. 155-13, File No. 130369, App. 7/25/2013, Eff. 8/24/2013)
SEC. 1001.  [REPEALED.]
(Added by Ord. 253-86, App. 6/27/86; amended by Ord. 35-99, App. 3/12/99; repealed by Ord. 155-13, File No. 130369, App. 7/25/2013, Eff. 8/24/2013)
SEC. 1004.  [REPEALED.]
(Added by Ord. 253-86, App. 6/27/86; amended by Ord. 348-88, App. 8/2/88; Ord. 35-99, App. 3/12/99; repealed by Ord. 155-13, File No. 130369, App. 7/25/2013, Eff. 8/24/2013)
SEC. 1006.  [REPEALED.]
(Added by Ord. 253-86, App. 6/27/86; amended by Ord. 348-88, App. 8/2/88; repealed by Ord. 155-13, File No. 130369, App. 7/25/2013, Eff. 8/24/2013)
SEC. 1012.  [REPEALED.]
(Added by Ord. 253-86, App. 6/27/86; amended by Ord. 348-88, App. 8/2/88; repealed by Ord. 155-13, File No. 130369, App. 7/25/2013, Eff. 8/24/2013)
SEC. 1014.  [REPEALED.]
(Added by Ord. 253-86, App. 6/27/86; repealed by Ord. 155-13, File No. 130369, App. 7/25/2013, Eff. 8/24/2013)
ARTICLE 21:
RESTRICTION OF USE OF POTABLE WATER FOR SOIL COMPACTION AND DUST CONTROL ACTIVITIES
Sec. 1100.Findings.Sec. 1101.Restriction of Use of Potable Water.Sec. 1102.Application Procedure.Sec. 1103.Use of Non-potable Water.Sec. 1104.Inspections; Stop Orders.Sec. 1105.Penalties.Sec. 1106.Rules and Regulations.Sec. 1107.Governmental Projects.
SEC. 1100.  FINDINGS.
	(a)	The entire state of California is suffering from the effects of a fifth consecutive drought year, which include the reduction of available water supplies to extremely limited levels. Rationing programs have been established in most areas of the state, including the City and County of San Francisco. Although recent rainstorms have lessened the severity of the drought, existing water supplies remain at extremely low levels. 
	(b)	The drought highlights the need to permanently manage water resources in a prudent manner. The responsibility for management of San Francisco's water resources is under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission ("Commission"). The Board of Supervisors should exercise its legislative authority to assist the Commission in achieving its goals. 
	(c)	The Commission has found that the use of high quality potable water for construction and demolition purposes in San Francisco is widespread. The use of such water supplies is not necessary for many construction and demolition purposes. Non-potable water is available for such purposes from various sources, including wastewater reclamation facilities and permitted groundwater wells. Use of non-potable water from those sources for construction and demolition purposes would not present a health or safety hazard if used in accordance with applicable State Department of Health and State Water Resources Control Board standards and requirements. 
	(d)	The Commission has found that the use of increasingly scarce supplies of high quality potable water for soil compaction and dust control is no longer feasible or in the public interest when appropriate substitute sources of non-potable water are available. 
	(e)	The Commission's findings are adopted by this Board. Furthermore, this Board finds that public interests in the preservation of high quality potable water for important human consumption uses would be best served by prohibiting the use of such water supplies for soil compaction or dust control when alternative supplies are available. 
(Added by Ord. 175-91, App. 5/10/91)
SEC. 1101.  RESTRICTION OF USE OF POTABLE WATER.
	Potable water shall not be used for soil compaction or dust control activities undertaken in conjunction with any construction or demolition project occurring within the boundaries of the City and County of San Francisco, unless permission is obtained from the City Water Department in accordance with this Article and all applicable Water Department policies and regulations. 
(Added by Ord. 175-91, App. 5/10/91)
SEC. 1102.  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
	(a)	Except as provided in Subsection (f), any person or entity that desires to use potable water for soil compaction or dust control activities to be undertaken in conjunction with a construction or demolition project occurring within the boundaries of the City and County of San Francisco shall apply to the General Manager of the Water Department for permission for such use of potable water. 
	(b)	Permission to use potable water for soil compaction or dust control activities may be granted by the General Manager if he or she determines in writing that: 
		(1)	Reclaimed water is not available in sufficient quality and quantity from wastewater treatment facilities located within 10 miles of the construction or demolition site; and 
		(2)	Well water or groundwater is not available in sufficient quality and quantity from wells and groundwater sources located within 10 miles of the construction or demolition site. 
	(c)	The cost of obtaining reclaimed water, well water or groundwater shall not be used as a factor in determining whether such water supplies are available. 
	(d)	Any person applying for permission to use potable water for soil compaction or dust control activities shall have the burden of providing sufficient evidence to the General Manager of the unavailability of reclaimed water, well water and groundwater supplies. 
	(e)	The General Manager's permission to use potable water pursuant to this Article may contain any conditions necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Article. 
	(f)	The Director of Public Works shall promulgate rules and regulations that will provide for an exemption from this Article for categories of small construction or demolition projects that commonly consume less than approximately 500 gallons of water per day. This exemption shall be implemented through the process of issuing construction-related permits and shall be based on project size, cost, characteristics or any other criteria or assumptions that reasonably accomplish the intent of this subsection. 
(Added by Ord. 175-91, App. 5/10/91)
SEC. 1103.  USE OF NON-POTABLE WATER.
	(a)	Reclaimed water, well water and groundwater shall be transported and used in accordance with State Health Department, State Water Resources Control Board, Regional Water Quality Control Board and City Departments of Health and Public Works orders, standards and regulations. Such transportation and use shall at all times be in compliance with all applicable labeling, warning and signage requirements. 
(Added by Ord. 175-91, App. 5/10/91)
SEC. 1104.  INSPECTIONS; STOP ORDERS.
	The Department of Public Works is authorized to inspect all construction and demolition sites in the City for the purpose of determining compliance with this Article. The Director shall have the power to stop the construction or demolition work when, in the opinion of the Director, such work is being done in violation of any of the provisions of this Article and to order all work to be stopped by notice in writing served upon any persons engaged in the doing or causing of such work to be done. The work shall be stopped immediately and shall not be resumed without authorization from the Director of Public Work. 
(Added by Ord. 175-91, App. 5/10/91)
SEC. 1105.  PENALTIES.
	(a)	Any person who violates any provision of this Article is guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine in an amount not in excess of $500. Each day each violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense. 
	(b)	Any person who intentionally or negligently violates any provision of this Article shall be liable civilly to the City in an amount not to exceed $1,000 per day for each violation that occurs. 
	(c)	Remedies under this Section are in addition to, and do not supersede or limit any and all other civil or criminal remedies available to the City under local, State and federal laws. 
(Added by Ord. 175-91, App. 5/10/91)
SEC. 1106.  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
	The Water Department, the Department of Public Works and the Department of Health are authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to administer the provisions of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 175-91, App. 5/10/91)
SEC. 1107.  GOVERNMENTAL PROJECTS.
	To the extent not directly in conflict with any applicable State or federal law, the provisions of this Article shall apply to all soil compaction and dust control activities undertaken in conjunction with the construction or demolition of public facilities by governmental entities. 
(Added by Ord. 175-91, App. 5/10/91)
ARTICLE 22:
RECLAIMED WATER USE
Sec. 1200.Title.Sec. 1201.Findings.Sec. 1202.Definitions.Sec. 1203.Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan.Sec. 1204.Implementation.Sec. 1205.Material and Construction Specifications.Sec. 1206.Penalties.Sec. 1207.Rules and Regulations.Sec. 1208.Government Facilities.Sec. 1209.Reclaimed Water Use Map Designation.Sec. 1210.Severability.
SEC. 1200.  TITLE.
	This Article shall be known as the "Reclaimed Water Use Ordinance." 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91 and Ord. 391-91, App. 11/7/91)
SEC. 1201.  FINDINGS.
	The Board of Supervisors finds that: 
	(a)	It is the responsibility of all water users in California to make effective use of available water resources. In San Francisco, water is distributed by the Water Department, a department of the Public Utilities Commission, which also supplies water to 2.6 million people in San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara and Alameda counties. The San Francisco Department of Public Works constructs and operates wastewater reclamation facilities and administers building, plumbing and structural construction codes. 
	(b)	The comprehensive management of urban water supplies should consider programs for developing the use of nonpotable and reclaimed water supplies. The Department of Public Works discharges approximately 100 million gallons per day of treated wastewater into San Francisco Bay and the Pacific Ocean. If this wastewater is given further treatment, it may be capable of being used for irrigation and other nonpotable purposes, thereby reducing potable water demand, and potentially making water available for conjunctive use, groundwater recharge, and other environmental benefits. Further, groundwater in aquifers beneath San Francisco may be utilized for potable and nonpotable purposes. 
	(c)	In 1989 the Board of Supervisors passed Resolution 389-89 urging the Department of Public Works and Water Department to expand wastewater reclamation and reuse in San Francisco. Preliminary feasibility studies prepared in 1989 indicated that reclamation could be a viable source of water for use within the City. Based on the results of the preliminary studies, the Departments began development of more extensive studies that will be completed in mid-1992. Preparation of these studies has involved many departments, including the Fire Department, Recreation and Park Department, City Planning Department, Department of Public Health, and several citizen and technical advisory groups. Public meetings have been held beginning in July 1991 and will continue for the duration of the projects. 
	(d)	If established, a comprehensive nonpotable and reclaimed water use program would result in the development of facilities to reclaim and reuse treated wastewater to assist in meeting the future water requirements of the City by supplementing existing surface and groundwater supplies. 
	(e)	Nonpotable and reclaimed water are resources that should be developed for beneficial use wherever it is reasonable to do so, consistent with legal requirements, economic considerations, the public health, safety and welfare, and the preservation of the environment. 
	(f)	This ordinance will enhance achievement of the City's goals for water supply use and preservation and protection of the environment by requiring the Water Department and the Department of Public Works to prepare a coordinated, comprehensive citywide plan for the efficient expansion of the use of reclaimed water and groundwater sources by all water consumers in San Francisco. 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91 and Ord. 391-91, App. 11/7/91)
SEC. 1202.  DEFINITIONS.
	The following terms and phrases used in this Article shall have the meanings set forth in this Section. 
	(a)	Development Project. Any project involving the construction, modification, conversion or alteration of any structure or structures or portion of any structure or structures, which will result in the construction, modification, conversion or alteration of 40,000 square feet or more of a building or structure, measured cumulatively from the effective date of this Article. A development project includes all landscaped, irrigated areas constructed in conjunction with the project, but such landscaped area shall not be included in the calculation of square footage for purposes of determining applicability of this definition. For the purposes of Section 1204(f) of this Article, a solely residential project is a development project containing residential uses occupying greater than 75 percent of the usable square footage of the structure containing residential uses. 
	(b)	Irrigation System. Any method of application of water to vegetation. The term "sprinkler system" in applicable City codes shall be construed as meaning irrigation system under this Article when referring to the application of water to vegetation. 
	(c)	Nonpotable Water. Groundwater and other subsurface water that may be used for a beneficial purpose in compliance with applicable City, State and Federal laws defining standards for nonpotable water uses. 
	(d)	Reclaimed Water Distribution System. A delivery system, including but not limited to pipelines, pumps, reservoirs, and controls from the source of supply to the point of connection with a building or structure lateral supply pipeline, intended for the delivery of reclaimed water, and which is separate from any potable water distribution system and complies with all material and construction specifications contained in City codes and other applicable State and Federal laws. 
	(e)	Reclaimed Water Irrigation System. A system designed for the use of reclaimed water for the irrigation of vegetation that complies with all material, construction and water use specifications contained in City codes and other applicable State and Federal laws. 
	(f)	Reclaimed Water System. A system of pipes and related facilities designed and used for the transmission of reclaimed water within buildings and structures, including lateral supply pipelines, that complies with all material and construction specifications contained in City codes and other applicable State and Federal laws. 
	(g)	Reclaimed Water Use Area. An area or areas designated by the Water Department and the Department of Public Works pursuant to this Article where reclaimed water is or will be available for use. 
	(h)	Reclaimed Water Use Area Map. The most recently updated map, including designated reclaimed water use areas, prepared by the Water Department and the Department of Public Works and adopted by the Chief Administrative Officer and the Public Utilities Commission. 
	(i)	Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan. A comprehensive plan prepared by the Water Department and the Department of Public Works for the use of nonpotable and reclaimed water in the City and County of San Francisco and, if feasible, beyond the boundaries of the City. 
	(j)	Reclaimed Water. Water which, as a result of the treatment of wastewater, is suitable for a direct beneficial use. 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91 and Ord. 391-91, App. 11/7/91)
SEC. 1203.  NONPOTABLE AND RECLAIMED WATER USE MASTER PLAN.
	(a)	The Water Department and the Department of Public Works shall prepare a Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan for review and approval by the Chief Administrative Officer and the Public Utilities Commission. By December 1, 1996, the Chief Administrative Officer and the Public Utilities Commission shall have adopted a Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan. Appropriate sections of Department of Public Works reclamation facilities planning reports and the Urban Water Management Plan prepared by the Water Department shall be incorporated and reconciled with the Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan. The Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan shall be updated at least every five years. The Chief Administrative Officer and the Public Utilities Commission are not required to adopt a Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan or any portion of such plan if environmental review identifies significant impacts that cannot be mitigated and a finding of overriding benefits cannot be made. The Chief Administrative Officer and the Public Utilities Commission shall not adopt a Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Master Plan or any amendment or modification thereof, unless either or both has first conducted a duly noticed public hearing thereon. The notice of hearing shall include the time and place of hearing; a general summary of the terms of the proposed Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan or amendment or modification thereof to be considered, including the areas included in the Reclaimed Water Use Area Map and such other information as the Public Utilities Commission or the Chief Administrative Officer considers necessary or desirable. Such notice of hearing shall be provided by publication at least once in a newspaper of general circulation no less than 20 days prior to the date on which the hearing is scheduled to occur and shall also be included on the next Public Utilities Commission calendar to be mailed following the date of such notice. Mailed notice shall be provided to any person requesting such notice in writing. Such notices shall be in addition to any other notice that may be required by law. The failure of any person to receive notice required by law does not affect the authority of the City and County of San Francisco to adopt the Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan. 
	(b)	Contents. The Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan shall include, but need not be limited to, the following: 
		(1)	Long-Range Plan for Use of Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water. Development of a long-range plan for the production, delivery and use of nonpotable and reclaimed water in the City, within the wholesale water service area of the Water Department, and in areas outside of the Water Department's service area; 
		The plan shall include: 
			(A)	Proposals, based on five-year incremental planning and implementation phases, for the expansion of production, delivery and use of reclaimed water, 
			(B)	Identification of opportunities for the expansion of the reclaimed water production system, including the expansion of existing facilities or the development of new wastewater treatment facilities. Estimation of the feasibility and cost of developing such facilities and analysis of financing requirements and alternatives. It is the express intention of this Article to exclude reliance on hookup charges or similar fees or charges in implementing the plan, 
			(C)	Evaluation of the potential demand for reclaimed water,
			(D)	Analysis of the potential for development and use of groundwater and other subsurface sources and conjunctive use projects, and evaluation of related water quality, aquifer yield and fish and wildlife protection issues; 
		(2)	Reclaimed Water Use Area Map.
			(A)	A reclaimed water use area map, delineating the areas that are served or, as projected by the Water Department and Department of Public Works, may be served within 10 years of the date of designation of such an area pursuant to this Article, by reclaimed water distribution systems. The map shall be prepared jointly by the Water Department and the Department of Public Works. The Chief Administrative Officer and the Public Utilities Commission shall review the map submitted by the Departments and may either approve the map or reject and remand the map to the Departments for further action. The map may be amended as necessary to reflect all additions and planned additions to the nonpotable and reclaimed water distribution system, 
			(B)	The map shall list and classify as designated reclaimed water use areas all areas within the boundaries of the City and County of San Francisco that meet either of the following criteria: 
				(i)	The area is currently served by a reclaimed water distribution system, or
				(ii)	The area may be served by a reclaimed water distribution system within ten years, as projected in the Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan, 
			(C)	The areas described in Section 1209 of this Article are hereby designated on the reclaimed water use map for the use of reclaimed water in accordance with this Article. The map areas described in Section 1209 may be modified by the Water Department and the Department of Public Works in the manner set forth in this Section; 
		(3)	Rules and Regulations. Description and analysis of relevant City, State and Federal rules, regulations, standards and procedures governing the production, distribution and use of nonpotable and reclaimed water; 
		(4)	Financial Assistance. Identification of resources and recommendation of specific measures to assist nonpotable and reclaimed water users to finance necessary nonpotable and reclaimed water use projects, including but not limited to identification of incentives, discounts in water rates or other measures; 
		(5)	Pilot and Demonstration Projects. Identification of demonstration or pilot projects to substitute the use of potable water with nonpotable and reclaimed water; 
		(6)	Public Awareness Program. Evaluation of and recommendations for the establishment and operation of a public awareness program to promote the use of nonpotable and reclaimed water; 
		(7)	Mandatory Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use. Evaluation and recommendation of types of water use, such as greenbelt irrigation, agricultural irrigation, office building uses, filling of habitat lakes, or industrial processes, that shall be required, wholly or partially, to use nonpotable or reclaimed water; 
		(8)	Interagency Coordination. Recommendations for actions to coordinate efforts between the City and other local and regional governmental agencies to share in the production and utilization of nonpotable and reclaimed water within and outside the boundaries of the City; 
		(9)	Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Source Protection. Recommendations for control measures and management practices necessary to maintain or improve the quality of nonpotable and reclaimed water. 
	(c)	Status Report. An annual report on the status and implementation of the Nonpotable and Reclaimed Water Use Master Plan shall be jointly prepared by the Water Department and the Department of Public Works and submitted to the Board of Supervisors, the Chief Administrative Officer, the Public Utilities Commission, the Department of Health, the Fire Department, the Recreation and Park Department and any other interested City agencies. This annual report shall include a yearly audit of the resulting offset in use of fresh water, if any, and identification of the uses of the saved water. 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91 and Ord. 391-91, App. 11/7/91; amended by Ord. 393-94, App. 11/23/94)
SEC. 1204.  IMPLEMENTATION.
	(a)	Development Project. A development project located within the boundaries of a reclaimed water use area designated pursuant to Section 1203(b)(2) of this Article may receive a site permit, building permit, land development authorization, or project authorization pursuant to City Planning Code Sections 320, et seq., only if the appropriate City permit approval or authorization official, as determined by the nature of the action requested by the project developer, determines that: 
		(1)	An exemption has not been granted by the General Manager of the Water Department in accordance with Section 1204(d)(2)(c) of this Article; 
		(2)	The development project provides for the construction and operation of a reclaimed water system and a reclaimed water irrigation system; 
		(3)	The owner or operator of the development project has obtained an appropriate certificate in accordance with Sections 1204(c) or 1204(d) of this Article; and 
		(4)	The development project is in compliance with all applicable City Code Sections providing for the design, installation and construction of all facilities necessary to the operation of a reclaimed water system and/or a reclaimed water irrigation system to serve the potential uses of the property or structure covered by the proposed permit or authorization, as may be further specified in the provisions of this Article, or the provisions of codes and regulations adopted pursuant to or in furtherance of this Article. 
	(b)	Subdivision Approvals.
		(1)	Parcel Map or Tentative Subdivision Map Conditions. The Director of Public Works shall not approve a tentative subdivision map or a parcel map for any property within the boundaries of the reclaimed water use area map, as provided in Section 1203(b)(2) of this Article, unless a condition is imposed requiring compliance with all applicable City Code Sections providing for the design, installation, construction, or dedication of all public works, public improvements, infrastructure or fixtures necessary to the operation of a reclaimed water distribution system to serve the potential uses of the property covered by the parcel map or tentative subdivision map, as may be further specified in the provisions of this Article, or the provisions of codes and regulations adopted pursuant to or in furtherance of this Article. 
		(2)	Subdivision Regulations. The Director of Public Works shall adopt regulations as necessary, consistent with and in furtherance of this Article, to ensure that all subdividers of property subject to the provisions of this ordinance provide such public improvements as are necessary to serve the subdivided property with reclaimed water from a reclaimed water distribution system. 
		(3)	Final Maps. The Director of Public Works shall not endorse and file a final map for property within the boundaries of a reclaimed water use area without first determining whether: 
			(A)	The subdivider has complied with the conditions imposed on the tentative subdivision map or parcel map, pursuant to this Article, and the ordinances and regulations adopted in furtherance thereof; and 
			(B)	For any such conditions not fully satisfied prior to the recordation of the final map, the subdivider has signed a certificate of agreement and/or improvement agreement, to ensure compliance with such conditions. 
		(4)	This Subsection (b) shall not apply to tentative subdivision maps or parcel maps submitted solely for the purposes of condominium conversion, as defined in San Francisco Subdivision Code Section 1308(d). 
	(c)	Reclaimed Water Use Registration and Issuance of Certificate. Any owner, operator or manager of a development project, or an irrigation system subject to Section 1204(e), located within the boundaries of a reclaimed water use area shall register such development project or irrigation system with the Water Department. The General Manager of the Water Department (or designee) shall issue a certificate of intention to use reclaimed water ("reclaimed water use certificate") and shall maintain a register of all such development projects and irrigation systems. The Water Department may inspect the operations of reclaimed water systems, reclaimed water irrigation systems and reclaimed water distribution systems to ensure the mandatory use of reclaimed water. The Water Department, acting through its Public Utilities Commission, is authorized to impose and collect fees in its discretion to recover the costs of implementing Sections 1204(c) and (d) of this Article, including costs of documentation processing, issuance of certificate, inspection, consultation with applicants and administration of Sections 1204(c) and (d) of this Article. 
	(d)	Reclaimed Water Use.
		(1)	Mandatory Use. Reclaimed water shall be used in all reclaimed water systems, reclaimed water distribution systems and reclaimed water irrigation systems required by Sections 1204(a), 1204(b) and 1204(e) of this Article, in a manner and to the extent consistent with all applicable local, State and Federal laws. 
		(2)	Exemptions.
			(A)	The General Manager may issue a reclaimed water use certificate temporarily exempting compliance with Section 1204(d)(1) if the General Manager determines that reclaimed water is not currently available. If the General Manager makes such a determination, potable water may be supplied on a temporary basis, until the General Manager determines that reclaimed water is available. 
			(B)	Potable or nonpotable water obtained from a subsurface water supply underlying a development project, subdivision or irrigation system subject to this Article may be used for the development project, subdivision or irrigation system if authorized by the General Manager through issuance of an alternative water supply certificate. The certificate may be issued under circumstances where the General Manager has determined that the Water Department will not be using the subsurface water supply for municipal water supply purposes. The General Manager may revoke any such reclaimed water use certificate and require the use of reclaimed water whenever the Water Department determines that the subsurface water supply is necessary for municipal water supply purposes. Revocation of the certificate will be effective one year after receipt of written notice. 
			(C)	The General Manager may issue reclaimed water use certificate exempting certain uses from compliance with Subsections (a), (d)(1), and (e) of Section 1204 under circumstances where the use of reclaimed water is not appropriate. The person or entity requesting such an exemption shall have the burden of demonstrating that the use of reclaimed water is not appropriate for the intended purposes and cannot be made usable by user pretreatment processes or other project modifications. 
	(e)	Irrigation Systems.
		(1)	New Irrigation Systems. A landscaped area located within the boundaries of a reclaimed water use area and not constructed in conjunction with or as part of a development project subject to Section 1204(a) shall be constructed for the use of reclaimed water and shall comply with the provisions of this Article if it comprises an area of 10,000 square feet or more. 
		(2)	Existing Irrigation Systems.
			(A)	Irrigation systems using potable water located within a reclaimed water use area shall be converted to use reclaimed water upon a determination by the General Manager (or designee) of the Water Department that reclaimed water is currently available for use. This conversion requirement shall apply to irrigation systems for irrigated property 10,000 square feet or more in size. 
			(B)	The General Manager shall, by written notice, inform the owner of the irrigated property that the irrigation system must be converted to use reclaimed water within 180 days of the date of mailing of the written notice. In the event the property is owned by more than one person or entity, notice to any one such owner is sufficient notice under this Article. The General Manager may provide an extension of the 180- day conversion period, if appropriate. 
			(C)	An owner may file an objection to the required conversion by submitting to the Water Department, by certified mail, return receipt requested, a written statement of the reasons why the irrigation system should not be required to convert to reclaimed water. The written statement will not be considered by the Water Department if it is not received by the Water Department within 60 days of the date the notice was mailed to the owner. The General Manager may rescind the conversion requirement only on the grounds of severe economic hardship or technical infeasibility. 
			(D)	In addition to other penalties provided by this Article or by law, failure to convert the irrigation system to use reclaimed water within the time prescribed in the notice shall be sufficient cause for the Water Department to terminate potable water service to the irrigation system, or in the case of common irrigation and potable water uses, the placement of a flow restrictor on the service line. 
	(f)	Applicability.
		(1)	Subsections (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this Section of this Article shall be applicable immediately upon the effective date of this Article. 
		(2)	Subsection (a) of this Section of this Article shall not apply to development projects for which a site permit, building permit, or project authorization pursuant to City Planning Code Sections 320, et seq., has been issued within 180 days after the effective date of this Article. 
		(3)	All development projects, except solely residential projects, for which a site permit, building permit, or project authorization pursuant to City Planning Code Sections 320, et seq., is issued more than 180 days after the effective date of this Article shall be in full compliance with this Article. 
		(4)	All development projects, including residential projects, for which a site permit, building permit, or project authorization pursuant to City Planning Code Sections 320, et seq., is issued subsequent to January 1, 2000, shall be in full compliance with this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91 and Ord. 391-91, App. 11/7/91)
SEC. 1205.  MATERIAL AND CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
	Within six months of the enactment of this Article, the Department of Public Works, in cooperation with the Public Utilities Commission, the Department of Public Health, and the San Francisco Fire Department, shall prepare and issue material and construction specifications for reclaimed water irrigation systems, reclaimed water distribution systems and reclaimed water systems. Specifications shall include, but not be limited to, pipe identification, quick coupling valves, use of distribution systems, washdown hydrants and other points of public access, warning labels, control and regulating valves, strainers, reclaimed water piping, potable water piping, conversion requirements, design criteria, backflow and cross-connection prevention designs and devices, and facilities for temporary potable water use if reclaimed water is not available. Specifications shall be based on the final draft "Guidelines for Distribution of Nonpotable Water," issued by the Association of Water Works Agencies, California-Nevada Section, Water Reclamation Committee (as amended from time to time), unless the Department of Public Works determines that sound engineering judgment relating to local conditions and practices requires deviation from such specifications. 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91 and Ord. 391-91, App. 11/7/91)
SEC. 1206.  PENALTIES.
	(a)	Any person who violates any provision of this Article is guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine in an amount not in excess of $500. Each day each violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense. 
	(b)	Any person who intentionally or negligently violates any provision of this Article shall be liable to the City in an amount not to exceed $1,000 per day for each violation that occurs. 
	(c)	Use of potable water in violation of this Article may result in the termination of potable water service by the General Manager of the Water Department. 
	(d)	The enforcement actions authorized in Subsections (a), (b) and (c) are in addition to, and do not supersede, any other remedies available under City, State or Federal construction codes and health codes applicable to activities subject to this Article and any other remedies available under law. 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91 and Ord. 391-91, App. 11/7/91)
SEC. 1207.  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
	The Public Utilities Commission, the Department of Public Works, the Health Department and the Fire Department are authorized to promulgate rules and regulations for the implementation of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91 and Ord. 391-91, App. 11/7/91)
SEC. 1208.  GOVERNMENT FACILITIES.
	The provisions of this Article shall apply, to the extent consistent with applicable laws, to any government-operated irrigation systems serving 10,000 square feet or more of landscaped property and new construction and operation of 40,000 square feet or more of government-owned and operated buildings and structures. 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91 and Ord. 391-91, App. 11/7/91)
SEC. 1209.  RECLAIMED WATER USE MAP DESIGNATION.
	The following areas are designated for the use of reclaimed water in accordance with this Article: 
	(a)	Westside. The Westside area includes seven sub-areas: Lake Merced, Great Highway, Golden Gate Park, 39th Avenue, Lincoln Park, Richmond Tunnel and Presidio. Each of these sub-areas is described as follows: 
	Lake Merced. The Lake Merced sub-area is bound by the Pacific Ocean on the west and by the San Francisco City and County Boundary on the south. On the east, the Lake Merced sub-area is bound by Junipero Serra Boulevard from the City and County Boundary north to Sloat Boulevard, by West Portal Avenue from Sloat Boulevard northeast to 15th Avenue, and by 15th Avenue from West Portal Avenue north to Vicente Street. On the north, the Lake Merced sub-area is bound by Vicente Street extending in a line from 15th Avenue west to the Pacific Ocean. 
	Great Highway. The Great Highway sub-area is bound by the Pacific Ocean on the west and a line extending from the Pacific Ocean east to Vicente Street and 47th Avenue on the south. On the east, the Great Highway sub-area is bound by 47th Avenue from Vicente Street to Lincoln Way, by Lincoln Way from 47th Avenue west to the Great Highway, and by the Great Highway from Lincoln Way north to Sutro Height Park. On the north, the Great Highway sub-area is bound by the southerly boundary of the Sutro Heights Park. 
	Golden Gate Park. The Golden Gate Park sub-area is bound by the Great Highway on the west. On the south, the Golden Gate Park sub-area is bound by Lincoln Way from the Great Highway east to Frederick Street, and by Frederick Street from Lincoln Way east to Stanyan Street. On the east, the Golden Gate Park sub-area is bound by Stanyan Street from Frederick Street north to Fulton Street. On the north, the Golden Gate Park sub-area is bound by Fulton Street from Stanyan Street west to the Great Highway. 
	39th Avenue. The 39th Avenue sub-area is bound by 40th Avenue on the west, Fulton Street on the south, 38th Avenue on the east, and Clement Street on the north. 
	Lincoln Park. The Lincoln Park sub-area is bound by the Pacific Ocean on the north and west. On the south, the Lincoln Park sub-area is bound by the southerly boundary of Sutro Heights Park extending east from the Pacific Ocean to 48th Avenue, by 48th Avenue from the southerly boundary of Sutro Heights Park north to Point Lobos Avenue, by El Camino Del Mar from Point Lobos Avenue north to Seal Rock Drive, by Seal Rock Drive from El Camino Del Mar east to Clement Street, and by Clement Street from Seal Rock Drive east to the easterly boundary of Lincoln Park. On the east, the Lincoln Park sub-area is bound by the easterly boundary of Lincoln Park extending in a line from Clement Street north to the Pacific Ocean. 
	Richmond Tunnel. The Richmond Tunnel sub-area extends 400 feet each side of a line described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of Fulton Street and 35th Avenue the line extends north 150 feet in 35th Avenue, then northeast in a straight line to the intersection of Lake Street and 26th Avenue, then east in Lake Street to the intersection of Lake Street and 24th Avenue, then north in a line extending from the intersection of Lake Street and 24th Avenue to the southerly boundary of the Presidio Military Reservation. 
	Presidio. The Presidio sub-area is bound by the Pacific Ocean on the north and west. On the south, the Presidio sub-area is bound by the southerly boundary of the Presidio Military Reservation from the Pacific Ocean east to Park Presidio Boulevard, by the southerly and easterly boundaries of Mountain Lake Park from Park Presidio Boulevard to West Pacific Avenue, by West Pacific Avenue extending in a line from the easterly boundary of Mountain Lake Park east to Lyon Street. On the east, the Presidio sub-area is bound by Lyon Street extending in a line from West Pacific Avenue north to the Pacific Ocean. 
	(b)	Eastside. The Eastside area is bound by San Francisco Bay on the east and north. On the west, the Eastside area is bound by Grant Street extending from San Francisco Bay south to its intersection with Francisco Street, by Francisco Street east to its intersection with Kearny Street, by Kearny Street south to its intersection with Chestnut Street, by Chestnut Street east to its intersection with Montgomery Street, by Montgomery Street south to its intersection with Lombard Street, by Lombard Street east to its intersection with Sansome Street, by Sansome Street south to its intersection with Market Street, by Market Street southwest to its intersection with 2nd Street, by 2nd Street southeast from its intersection with Market Street to the intersection of 2nd Street and Mission Street, by Mission Street southwest from 2nd Street to the intersection of Mission Street and 7th Street, by 7th Street from Mission Street southeast to 16th Street, by Interstate 280 from the intersection of 7th Street and 16th Street south to Army Street, by Army Street from Interstate 280 west to Bayshore Boulevard, by Bayshore Boulevard from Army Street south to Jerrold Avenue, by Jerrold Avenue from Bayshore Boulevard southeast to Interstate 280, and by Interstate 280 from Jerrold Avenue southwest to Newcomb Avenue. On the south, the Eastside area is bound by Newcomb Avenue from Interstate 280 southeast to Third Street, by Third Street from Newcomb Avenue northeast to Evans Avenue, by Evans Avenue from Third Street southeast to Middlepoint, by Middlepoint southwest to Ingalls Avenue, by Ingalls Avenue southwest to Wallace Avenue, and by a line extending southeast along Wallace Avenue to San Francisco Bay, including the Hunters Point Naval Shipyard. 
	Treasure Island. The Treasure Island sub-area shall include all of Treasure Island and Yerba Buena Island. 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91; amended by Ord. 393-94, App. 11/23/94)
SEC. 1210.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Article or any part thereof, is for any reason held unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, said decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Article, or any part thereof. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase herein, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. 
(Added by Ord. 390-91, App. 11/7/91 and Ord. 391-91, App. 11/7/91)
ARTICLE 23:
GRAFFITI REMOVAL
Sec. 1300.Title.Sec. 1301.Purpose and Intent.Sec. 1302.Definitions.Sec. 1303.Prohibition.Sec. 1304.Violations.Sec. 1305.Request for Hearing; Hearing.Sec. 1306.Abatement by Director.Sec. 1307.Stay of Proceedings During Criminal Prosecution.Sec. 1308.Limitation of Liability.Sec. 1309.Severability.
SEC. 1300.  TITLE.
	This Article shall be known as the "Graffiti Removal and Abatement Ordinance." 
(Added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94)
SEC. 1301.  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
	The Board of Supervisors hereby finds and declares that: 
	(a)	Graffiti is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the community in that it promotes a perception in the community that the laws protecting public and private property can be disregarded with impunity. This perception fosters a sense of disrespect of the law that results in an increase in crime; degrades the community and leads to urban blight; is detrimental to property values, business opportunities and the enjoyment of life; is inconsistent with the City's property maintenance goals and aesthetic standards; and results in additional graffiti and in other properties becoming the target of graffiti unless it is quickly removed from public and private property. 
	(b)	Graffiti results in visual pollution and is hereby deemed a public nuisance. Graffiti must be abated as quickly as possible to avoid detrimental impacts on the City and County and its residents, and to prevent the further spread of graffiti. 
	(c)	Graffiti is increasingly used by gangs to frighten residents of neighborhoods. Therefore, gang graffiti, in particular, exacerbates the degradation of San Francisco's quality of life. In order to alleviate this fear caused by gang graffiti, and to assist the partnership between the City and County and the neighborhoods in their mutual efforts to make streets safe, gang graffiti must be abated as quickly as possible. 
	(d)	It is the purpose of this Article to provide a program for the removal of graffiti from walls, pavement, structures and other improvements on both public and private property. 
(Added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94; amended by Ord. 263-04, File No. 041150, App. 11/4/2004)
SEC. 1302.  DEFINITIONS.
	(a)	City. "City" means the City and County of San Francisco. 
	(b)	Director. "Director" means the Director of the Department of Public Works or his or her designee. 
	(c)	Graffiti. "Graffiti" means any inscription, word, figure, marking or design that is affixed, marked, etched, scratched, drawn or painted on any building, structure, fixture or other improvement, whether permanent or temporary, including by way of example only and without limitation, signs, banners, billboards and fencing surrounding construction sites, whether public or private, without the consent of the owner of the property or the owner's authorized agent, and which is visible from the public right-of-way. "Graffiti" shall not include: (1) any sign or banner that is authorized by, and in compliance with, the applicable requirements of this Code, the San Francisco Planning Code or the San Francisco Building Code; or (2) any mural or other painting or marking on the property that is protected as a work of fine art under the California Art Preservation Act (California Civil Code Sections 987 et seq.) or as a work of visual art under the Federal Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990 (17 U.S.C.  101 et seq.). 
	(d)	Owner. "Owner" shall mean the owner of record of the property as set forth in the most current records of the Tax Assessor, or the owner's authorized agent. 
(Added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94; amended by Ord. 263-04, File No. 041150, App. 11/4/2004)
SEC. 1303.  PROHIBITION.
	It shall be unlawful for the owner of any real property within the City and County bearing graffiti to allow the graffiti to remain on the property in violation of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94; amended by Ord. 263-04, File No. 041150, App. 11/4/2004)
SEC. 1304.  VIOLATIONS.
	(a)	Notice of Violation. Where the Director determines that any property contains graffiti in violation of Section 1303, the Director may issue a notice of violation to the property owner. At the time the notice of violation is issued, the Director shall take one or more photographs of the alleged graffiti, and shall make copies of the photographs available to the property owner upon request. The photographs shall be dated and retained as a part of the file for the violation. The notice shall give the owner thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the notice to either remove the graffiti or request a hearing on the notice of violation, and shall set forth the procedure for requesting the hearing. The notice shall also inform the owner that where the owner fails to either remove the graffiti or request a hearing within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the notice, the Director may initiate proceedings in accordance with this Article to enter upon the owner's property and abate the graffiti at the owner's expense. The notice shall further inform the owner that the minimum charge for removing graffiti is the greater of either $500 or the actual cost to the City, (including overhead and administrative costs, as well as attorneys' fees where the Director has elected to seek recovery of attorneys' fees). The Director shall serve the notice of violation as follows: 
		1.	One copy of the Notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the building or property.
		2.	One copy of the Notice shall be served upon each of the following:
			A.	The person, if known, in real or apparent charge and control of the premises or property involved;
			B.	The owner of record.
		3.	The Director may also serve one copy of the notice upon any other parties with a recorded interest.
	Service required by paragraphs 2 and 3 may be made by personal service or by certified mail. 
	(b)	Where property defaced by graffiti is owned by a public entity other than the City and County, the Director shall cause removal of the graffiti only after securing the consent of an authorized representative of the public entity that has jurisdiction over the property. The Director shall use all reasonable efforts to minimize graffiti on City-owned property, but City-owned property shall not otherwise be subject to the requirements of this Article. 
(Added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94; amended by Ord. 211-99, File No. 990623, App. 7/30/99; Ord. 263-04, File No. 041150, App. 11/4/2004) 
SEC. 1305.  REQUEST FOR HEARING; HEARING.
	(a)	Request for Hearing. A property owner may request a hearing in order to contest the notice of violation issued in accordance with Section 1304 by filing with the Director within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the notice of violation, a request for hearing that specifies in detail the basis for contesting the notice of violation. 
	(b)	Notice of Hearing. Whenever a hearing is requested pursuant to this Section, the Director shall, within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the request, notify the property owner of the date, time, and place of the administrative review hearing by certified mail. Such hearing shall be held no later than forty-five (45) calendar days after the Director receives the request, unless time is extended by mutual agreement of the affected parties. 
	(c)	Submittals for the Hearing. At least five (5) City business days prior to the hearing, the property owner and the City shall submit to the hearing officer and exchange with one another, written information including, but not limited to, the following: a statement of the issues to be determined by the hearing officer, a statement of the evidence to be offered at the hearing and the identity of any witnesses to appear at the hearing. 
	(d)	Hearing Procedure. The hearing shall be conducted by a neutral hearing officer from a City office or department outside the Department of Public Works, appointed by the Director of Administrative Services. The burden of proof to establish that the property contains graffiti shall be on the City. The owner shall be entitled to present evidence and demonstrate that his or her property does not contain graffiti. The property owner shall also be entitled to present evidence and demonstrate that his or her property is burdened with a disproportionate share of graffiti vandalism, based on factors such as the frequency or extent of the graffiti, such that requiring the owner to remove the graffiti would result in an unfair hardship. All testimony shall be under oath, and witnesses maybe cross-examined. The hearing officer shall ensure that a record of the proceedings is maintained. The determination of the hearing officer after the hearing shall be final and not appealable. 
	(e)	Decision. The hearing officer shall issue a decision including a summary of the issues and the evidence presented, and findings and conclusions, within ten (10) calendar days of the conclusion of the hearing. A copy of the decision shall be served upon the property owner by certified mail. The decision shall be the City's final administrative determination. An aggrieved party may seek judicial review of the decision pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1094.5 and 1094.6. 
(Formerly part of Sec. 1306; added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94; amended and renumbered by Ord. 263-04, File No. 041150, App. 11/4/2004) (Former Sec. 1305 added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94; amended by Ord. 211-99, File No. 990623, App. 7/30/99; repealed by Ord. 263-04) 
SEC. 1306.  ABATEMENT BY DIRECTOR.
	(a)	Following the hearing if the City sustains its burden of proof, or if the property owner does not request a hearing and fails to remove the graffiti within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the notice of violation, the Director may immediately order that the graffiti be abated. Unless the Director has obtained written consent from the property owner to enter the property and remove the graffiti, before initiating abatement the Director shall obtain a court order authorizing the Department of Public Works to enter upon the property and remove the graffiti and give written notice of the abatement (Abatement Order) served in accordance with Section 1304(a). The Director may not order a graffiti abatement action that may violate the California Art Preservation Act (California Civil Code Sections 987 et seq.) or the Federal Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990 (17 U.S.C.  101 et seq.) without first consulting with the City Attorney. 
	(b)	Alternatively, the Director may provide paint for graffiti removal to a property owner at no charge. In return, the property owner shall agree in writing to paint over the graffiti giving rise to the violation within 10 City business days from receiving the paint. A property owner's failure to paint over the graffiti within that time shall be ground for the Director to issue a new notice of violation under Section 1304. 
	(c)	If the hearing officer determines that a hardship exists, the Director is authorized to remove the graffiti at no cost to the property owner, provided that the owner releases the City from liability by providing the Director with a signed waiver of liability. The Director may develop forms for this purpose. 
	(d)	The following procedures shall apply to actions by the Director to abate and recover costs for abatement of graffiti on private property: 
		(1)	Abatement Action. After obtaining a court order, the Director shall implement the Abatement Order. The Director may enter upon the property and cause the removal, painting over or other eradication of the graffiti as the Director deems appropriate. The Director shall not authorize or undertake to provide for the painting or repair of any more extensive area than that where the graffiti is located, except where the Director determines in a written notice to the owner that a more extensive area is required to be repainted or repaired in order to avoid an aesthetic disfigurement to the neighborhood or community. Where the Director removes graffiti in accordance with the requirements of this Article, the owner shall pay the greater of either $500 or the actual cost (including overhead and administrative costs, as well as attorneys' fees where the Director has elected to seek recovery of attorneys' fees) of removing the graffiti. The Director shall provide an accounting to the owner of the costs of the abatement action (Abatement Accounting) on a full cost recovery basis not later than 10 days from the date the abatement action is completed. The Abatement Accounting shall include all administrative costs incurred by the City in abating graffiti on the property. The total amount set forth in the Abatement Accounting shall be due and payable by the owner within 30 days from the date of mailing of the Abatement Accounting. 
		(2)	Recovery of Attorneys' Fees. At the time the abatement action is filed, the Director may elect to seek recovery of attorneys' incurred in a graffiti abatement action under this Article. In a case where the Director makes this election, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover attorneys' fees. In no event shall the award of attorneys' fees to a prevailing party exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the City in the action. 
		(3)	Lien. If all or any portion of the amount set forth in the Abatement Accounting remains unpaid after 30 days of the mailing of the Abatement Accounting, such portion shall constitute a proposed lien on the property which was the subject matter of the Abatement Action. Except as otherwise specified in this subparagraph, such liens shall be imposed in accordance with Chapter 10, Article XX of the Administrative Code. Property owners seeking to challenge the amount of the Abatement Accounting may do so at the hearing authorized under Chapter 10, Article XX of the Administrative Code. 
			(A)	In addition to the requirements imposed under Section 10.232 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, the notice to the property owner of the hearing on the proposed lien shall be served in the same manner as a summons in a civil action in accordance with Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2 of the California Code of Civil Procedure. Where, after diligent search, the owner of record cannot be found, the notice may be served by posting a copy in a conspicuous place upon the property for a period of ten (10) days and publication thereof in a newspaper of general circulation. 
			(B)	Any lien authorized by this Section shall specify the amount of the lien, the name of the department initiating the abatement proceeding, the date of the abatement order, the street address, legal description and assessor's parcel number of the parcel on which the lien is imposed, and the name and address of the recorded owner of the parcel. 
			(C)	Where a lien authorized by this Section is discharged, released or satisfied, either through payment or foreclosure, the Tax Collector shall record a notice of the discharge containing the information specified in subparagraph (B). Any such notice of discharge shall be subject to the Release of Lien Fee imposed pursuant to Section 10.237 of the San Francisco Administrative Code. 
		(4)	Special Assessment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article XX of Chapter 10, pursuant to Section 38773.5 of the California Government Code, the Board of Supervisors may order that the amount of the lien be specially assessed against the parcel. Upon such an order, the entire unpaid balance of the costs, including any penalty and interest payments on the unpaid balance to the date that the Director reports to the Board shall be included in the special assessment lien against the property. The Director shall report charges against delinquent accounts to the Board of Supervisors at least once each year. At the time the special assessment is imposed, the Director shall give notice to the property owner by certified mail, and shall inform the property owner that the property may be sold by the Tax Collector for unpaid delinquent assessments after three years. The assessment may be collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary municipal taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for ordinary municipal taxes. All tax laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of ordinary municipal taxes shall be applicable to the special assessment. However, if any real property to which a cost of abatement relates has been transferred or conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a lien of a bona fide encumbrancer for value has been created and attaches thereon, prior to the date on which the first installment of taxes would become delinquent, then the cost of abatement shall not result in a lien against the real property but instead shall be transferred to the unsecured roll for collection. 
(Added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94; partially renumbered as Sec. 1305 and amended by Ord. 263-04, File No. 041150, App. 11/4/2004)
SEC. 1307.  STAY OF PROCEEDINGS DURING CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
	In any case in which a criminal prosecution is pending or is about to be instituted for violation of Penal Code Sections 594 and 640.6, or of any other law that authorizes a court to sentence a criminal defendant to remove graffiti placed on property by that defendant, the Director may suspend abatement actions under this Article. In such a case, the abatement action shall be suspended only in connection with any property upon which the defendant is charged with placing graffiti, and only until such time as the defendant is sentenced or the case is otherwise closed. This provision shall not prohibit a property owner from removing graffiti from his or her own property during such time as the criminal proceeding is pending. 
(Added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94; amended by Ord. 263-04, File No. 041150, App. 11/4/2004)
SEC. 1308.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
	By adopting this Graffiti Abatement and Removal Ordinance, the City is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. 
(Added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94; amended by Ord. 263-04, File No. 041150, App. 11/4/2004)
SEC. 1309.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any provision, subdivision, section, paragraph, phrase or clause of this Article or the application thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this Article. The remainder of this Article shall remain effective and enforceable to the fullest extent allowed by law. All clauses and provisions of this Article are hereby declared to be severable. 
(Added by Ord. 29-94, App. 1/14/94)
ARTICLE 24:
SHOPPING CARTS
Sec. 1400.Findings.Sec. 1401.Definitions.Sec. 1402.Scope; Declaration of Nuisance.Sec. 1403.Impoundment.Sec. 1404.Emergency Impoundment.Sec. 1405.Hearing.Sec. 1406.Carts Bearing Identification Signs.Sec. 1407.Nature of Director's Duties.Sec. 1408.Limitation of Liability.Sec. 1409.Severability.Sec. 1410.Signage Required on Carts.Sec. 1411.Mandatory Signage on Premises.Sec. 1412.Exemptions.Sec. 1413.Securing of Carts.Sec. 1414.Penalty.
SEC. 1400.  FINDINGS.
	The Board of Supervisors finds as follows: 
	(a)	The City and County of San Francisco has a substantial interest in promoting the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of its citizens and visitors by ensuring that public streets, sidewalks and rights-of-way not be obstructed by unattended empty shopping carts left on either public property or on private property without the owner's consent. 
	(b)	The proliferation of unattended empty shopping carts on City streets and public and private property has contributed to congestion of City sidewalks, impeded the flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, interfered with the use of streets, sidewalks and public rights-of-way, presented hazards to persons and property, contributed to litter problems and resulted in visual blight. 
	(c)	The purpose of this ordinance is to promote the public health, safety and welfare and the aesthetic qualities of the City by promoting removal of unattended empty shopping carts on public property or on private property without the owner's consent so as to: 
		(1)	Provide for pedestrian and vehicular safety and convenience;
		(2)	Ensure that there is no unreasonable interference in the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, including ingress into, or egress from, any residence, place of business or public facility, or any legally parked or stopped vehicle; and 
		(3)	Reduce visual blight and clutter and litter problems associated with empty shopping carts.
(Added by Ord. 32-02, File No. 012234, App. 3/22/2002)
SEC. 1401.  DEFINITIONS.
	(a)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of Public Works, or his or her designee.
	(b)	"Empty shopping cart" means a shopping cart that does not contain personal property or merchandise purchased from a retail establishment. A shopping cart containing only litter or trash shall be considered an empty shopping cart for purposes of this definition. 
	(c)	"Parking area" means a parking lot or other property provided by a retailer for use by a customer for parking an automobile or other vehicle. 
	(d)	"Personal property" shall mean property that consists of readily identifiable personal effects in usable condition or that appear to be temporarily stored for later retrieval including, but not limited to, blankets, clothing, radios, TVs, sleeping bags, ground covers, toiletries, eye glasses, jewelry, medications, personal papers, recyclables, shoes, tarpaulins, bags, backpacks, tents or luggage and other items of significant value. 
	(f)	"Property owner" means the owner of real property or his or her designated agent.
	(g)	"Shopping Cart" means a basket that is mounted on wheels or a similar device generally used in a retail establishment by a customer for the purpose of transporting goods of any kind. 
(Added by Ord. 32-02, File No. 012234, App. 3/22/2002)
SEC. 1402.  SCOPE; DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
	The requirements of this Article shall apply only to unattended empty shopping carts. Unattended empty shopping carts located on either public property or on private property without the owner's consent are hereby declared a nuisance. 
(Added by Ord. 32-02, File No. 012234, App. 3/22/2002)
SEC. 1403.  IMPOUNDMENT.
	(a)	The Director may immediately impound an empty shopping cart located on either (1) public property outside the premises or parking area of a retail establishment, or (2) private property where the property owner has requested that the shopping cart be removed. Upon removal pursuant to this section, the Director shall give the owner of the shopping cart or his or her agent notice within 24 hours following the impound. That notice shall inform the owner or his or her agent as to the location where the shopping cart may be claimed. For purposes of this section, the parking area of a retail establishment located in a multistore complex or shopping center shall include the entire parking area used by the complex or center. 
	(b)	Any shopping cart impounded pursuant to paragraph (a) shall be held at a location that is both reasonably convenient to the owner of the shopping cart, and which is open at least six hours of each business day. 
	(c)	The Director shall provide notice of each impounded shopping cart as follows: if the shopping cart contains information identifying a specific entity or person as the owner or contact, the Director shall give notice to that person. Otherwise, the Director shall give notice to the entity or person that the Director has reason to believe is the owner. Where an empty shopping cart contains indicia that it belongs to a particular company or retailer with more than one location in the City, but the cart contains no indication as to which location it belongs to, the Director shall make reasonable efforts to locate and notify the owner or agent. In the case of a retailer with multiple locations in the City, the Director may satisfy this requirement by providing notice to the retailer's headquarters office, if located in San Francisco, or to the retailer's area or regional office. Retailers may submit to the Director the name of one contact person or office to be the designated agent for notice by mail or telephone under this Article. Where an empty shopping cart lacks sufficient markings to enable the Director to determine the owner or owner's agent, the Director may treat the empty shopping cart as abandoned property. 
	(d)	The Director can comply with the notice requirements imposed by this section by placing a telephone call during regular business hours to the owner or owner's representative designated pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, or on the shopping cart. Where no such person is designated, the Director shall call the owner at a number listed in the San Francisco telephone book. In addition, the Director shall give mailed notice to the address designated by the owner pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, or in the absence of such a designation, to the address indicated on the shopping cart, or in the absence of such an address, to the address listed for the owner in the San Francisco telephone book. 
	(e)	Any impounded shopping cart that is reclaimed by the owner or his or her agent within two business days of the notice provided pursuant to paragraph (a) shall be released to the owner or agent at no cost, including waiver of any impound or storage fees. 
	(f)	Any impounded shopping cart that is not reclaimed by the owner or his or her agent within two business days following the date of notice pursuant to paragraph (a) shall be subject to payment of the actual costs incurred by the City in impounding and storing the shopping cart. The City shall have a lien on the shopping cart, and shall not release the shopping cart until such costs are paid in full by the retailer or the person(s) collecting the carts at the time of collection from the Department of Public Works. 
	(g)	Any impounded shopping cart that is not reclaimed by the owner or his or her agent within 30 days following the receipt of notice pursuant to paragraph (a) may be sold or otherwise disposed of by the Director. 
(Added by Ord. 32-02, File No. 012234, App. 3/22/2002)
SEC. 1404.  EMERGENCY IMPOUNDMENT.
	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, the Director may immediately impound any shopping cart that is located in such manner as to create a public hazard or an impediment to emergency services. In such cases, the Director shall notify the owner in accordance with Section 1403. 
(Added by Ord. 32-02, File No. 012234, App. 3/22/2002)
SEC. 1405.  HEARING.
	The owner, or his or her agent, of a shopping cart that has been impounded pursuant to this Article may request a hearing before the Director to contest the validity of the impoundment. The hearing request shall be made in writing to the Director within five business days from the date the actual notice given to the owner pursuant to this Article. The hearing shall be conducted within five business days of the date the Director receives the request, and shall be conducted in accordance with procedures established by the Director. In the hearing, the City shall bear the burden of demonstrating the factual basis for the removal and impound. If the Director determines that the shopping cart was wrongfully impounded, the shopping cart shall be returned to the owner or his or her agent, and any costs or charges otherwise due shall be waived. 
(Added by Ord. 32-02, File No. 012234, App. 3/22/2002)
SEC. 1406.  CARTS BEARING IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.
	Where the Director seeks to impound a shopping cart that bears the identification required by California Business and Professions Code Section 22435.1, the requirements for notice, impoundment and recovery of the shopping cart shall be governed by Business and Professions Code Sections 22435 through 22435.7. 
(Added by Ord. 32-02, File No. 012234, App. 3/22/2002)
SEC. 1407.  NATURE OF DIRECTOR'S DUTIES.
	It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors that the duties imposed upon the Director by this Article be directory in nature, and that as a result, the Director's failure to comply with a particular procedural step shall not invalidate any subsequent action by the Director to which the procedural requirement relates. 
(Added by Ord. 32-02, File No. 012234, App. 3/22/2002)
SEC. 1408.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
	By adopting this Article, the City and County of San Francisco is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. 
(Added by Ord. 32-02, File No. 012234, App. 3/22/2002)
SEC. 1409.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or word of this Article is for any reason declared invalid or unconstitutional or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Article or any part thereof. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have adopted this Article notwithstanding the unconstitutionality, invalidity, or ineffectiveness of any one or more of its sections, subsections, clauses, phrases or words. 
(Added by Ord. 32-02, File No. 012234, App. 3/22/2002)
SEC. 1410.  SIGNAGE REQUIRED ON CARTS.
	No business shall supply carts for use by its customers unless the cart has permanently affixed on it a sign that contains the following information: 
	(a)	Identification of the owner of the cart or the business providing the cart for use, or both;
	(b)	Identification of the procedures to be utilized for authorized removal of the cart from the premises or parking area;
	(c)	Notification that removal of the cart from the premises or parking area of the business establishment and/or the unauthorized possession of the cart is a violation of state law; and 
	(d)	A valid telephone number or address for returning the cart to the owner or business providing the cart.
(Added by Ord. 68-05, File No. 050071, App. 4/15/2005)
SEC. 1411.  MANDATORY SIGNAGE ON PREMISES.
	Every business that owns or provides carts for the use of its customers within the City and County of San Francisco shall post conspicuous signs at or near each entrance to its parking lot and the public entrance doors to its store notifying its customers that removal of carts from the premises is prohibited without written authorization. 
(Added by Ord. 68-05, File No. 050071, App. 4/15/2005)
SEC. 1412.  EXEMPTIONS.
	(a)	A business that has a physical security device, such as trip wires or barriers, that prevents customers from removing carts from the premises shall be exempt from both the cart and the premises signage requirements. 
	(b)	A business that does not have a physical security device shall be exempt from the cart signage requirements if: (1) the business retrieves carts at least two days per week at San Francisco Department of Public Works shopping cart retrieval yard; and (2) has permanently affixed to the cart information sufficient to identify the owner. 
(Added by Ord. 68-05, File No. 050071, App. 4/15/2005)
SEC. 1413.  SECURING OF CARTS.
	Every business that owns or provides carts for the use of its customers shall ensure that all carts on its premises are secured such that a member of the public may not remove any carts from the premises during the hours that the business is closed. 
(Added by Ord. 68-05, File No. 050071, App. 4/15/2005)
SEC. 1414.  PENALTY.
	(a)	Any person violating this Article or any rules or regulations issued pursuant to this Article of which the person has been given notice, shall be guilty of an infraction and subject to a fine of not in excess of $100. 
	(b)	The violation of any provision of this Article that would otherwise be an infraction shall be a misdemeanor if the person who has violated such provision has previously been convicted of two or more violations within the 12-month period immediately preceding the current offense and the prior convictions are admitted by the person charged with the violations or are alleged in the accusatory pleading. For this purpose, a bail forfeiture shall be deemed to be a conviction of the offense charged. A person convicted of a misdemeanor pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not exceeding 30 days or a fine not exceeding $500, or both. 
(Added by Ord. 68-05, File No. 050071, App. 4/15/2005)
ARTICLE 25:
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES
Sec. 1500.Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit.Sec. 1501.Department Orders and Regulations.Sec. 1502.Definitions.Sec. 1503.Types of Personal Wireless Services Facilities.Sec. 1504.Initial Review of a Personal Wireless Facility Site Permit Application.Sec. 1505.Conditions of Approval. Sec. 1506.Street Tree.Sec. 1507.Department of Public Health Review.Sec. 1508.Department Review of a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit Application.Sec. 1509.Planning Department Review of a Tier II-B, Tier III-A, or Tier III-B Facility Permit Application.Sec. 1510.Recreation and Park Department Review of a Tier II-C or Tier III-C Facility Permit Application.Sec. 1511.Department Determination.Sec. 1512.Notice Following Tentative Approval of a Tier III Facility Permit Application.Sec. 1513.Protest of a Tier III Facility Permit.Sec. 1514.Notice of Final Determination.Sec. 1515.Appeals.Sec. 1516.Notice of Completion and Inspection.Sec. 1517.Compliance.Sec. 1518.Abandonment.Sec. 1519.Term of Permit.Sec. 1520.Renewal.Sec. 1521.Replacement of Equipment.Sec. 1522.Modification of Permit.Sec. 1523.Deposit.Sec. 1524.Liability.Sec. 1525.Indemnification and Defense of City.Sec. 1526.Insurance.Sec. 1527.Fees and Costs.Sec. 1528.Severability.
SEC. 1500.  PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY SITE PERMIT.
	(a)	Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit Required. The Department shall require any Person seeking to construct, install, or maintain a Personal Wireless Service Facility in the Public Rights-of-Way to obtain a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit. 
	(b)	Minimum Permit Requirements.
		(1)	The Department shall not issue a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit if the Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit does not comply with all of the requirements of this Article 25. 
		(2)	The Department shall require an Applicant for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Department that: 
			(A)	The Department has issued the Applicant a Utility Conditions Permit as required by San Francisco Administrative Code Section 11.9; 
			(B)	The pole owner has authorized the Applicant to use or replace the Utility or Street Light Pole identified in the Application; and 
			(C)	The Applicant has obtained any approvals that may be required under the California Environmental Quality Act (California Public Resources Code Section 21000 et seq.) to construct, install, and maintain the proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility. 
	(c)	The Department shall not issue a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit if the Applicant seeks to:
		(1)	Install a new Utility or Street Light Pole on a Public Right-of-Way where there presently are no overhead utility facilities; or 
		(2)	Add a Personal Wireless Service Facility on a Utility or Street Light Pole for which a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit has already been approved. 
	(d)	Permit Conditions. The Department may include in a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit such conditions, in addition to those already set forth in this Article 25 and other Applicable Law, as may be required to govern the construction, installation, or maintenance of Personal Wireless Service Facilities in the Public Rights-of-Way, and to protect and benefit the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience, provided that no such conditions may concern the particular technology used for a Personal Wireless Service Facility. Such conditions may also govern the installation and use of equipment that is not located on a Utility or Street Light Pole, but that is necessary for the use of a permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility. 
	(e)	Installation of Cabinets or Vaults in the Public Rights-of-Way. The Department shall not include in a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit an authorization for the Permittee to install a surface-mounted equipment cabinet or underground equipment vault in the Public Rights-of-Way. In order to install such an equipment cabinet or vault in the Public Rights-of-Way for use with a Personal Wireless Service Facility, a Permittee must fully comply with any other City permitting requirements related to the installation of such facilities. 
	(f)	Other Provisions Inapplicable. Notwithstanding the requirements of San Francisco Business and Tax Code Sections 5, 6, and 26(a), the provisions of this Article 25 shall govern all actions taken by the City with respect to the approval or denial of an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit under this Article 25. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1501.  DEPARTMENT ORDERS AND REGULATIONS.
	The Department may adopt such orders or regulations as it deems necessary to implement the requirements of this Article 25, or to otherwise preserve and maintain the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience, as are consistent with this requirements of this Article 25 and Applicable Law. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1502.  DEFINITIONS.
	For purposes of this Article 25, the following terms, phrases, words, abbreviations, their derivations, and other similar terms, when capitalized, shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense; words in the plural number include the singular number; and words in the singular number include the plural number. 
	(a)	"Adjacent" means:
		(1)	On the same side of the street and in front of the building or the next building on either side, when used in connection with a national historic landmark, California landmark, San Francisco landmark, structure of merit, architecturally significant building, or locally significant building; and 
		(2)	In front of and on the same side of the street, when used in connection with a City park or open space.
	(b)	"Applicable Law" means all applicable federal, state, and City laws, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations and orders, as the same may be amended or adopted from time to time. 
	(c)	"Applicant" means any Person submitting an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit under this Article 25. 
	(d)	"Application" means an application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit under this Article 25.
	(e)	"City" means the City and County of San Francisco.
	(f)	"Conditions" means any additional requirements that a City department reviewing an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit has determined are necessary for the Application to comply with those requirements of this Article 25 that are within that department's purview, provided that no such Conditions may include a requirement that an Applicant use a particular technology for a Personal Wireless Service Facility. 
	(g)	"Department" means the Department of Public Works.
	(h)	"Director" means the Director of Public Works.
	(i)	"FCC" means the Federal Communications Commission.
	(j)	"Immediate Vicinity" means:
		(1)	Within one (1) block in any direction from the boundary of a Planning Protected Location that is a national historic landmark district, listed or eligible national register historic district, listed or eligible California register historic district, San Francisco landmark district, local historic or conservation district, or locally significant district; 
		(2)	Within twenty-five (25) feet of the property lines from the properties that are Adjacent to a Planning Protected Location that is a national historic landmark, California landmark, San Francisco landmark, structure of merit, architecturally significant building, or locally significant building, or across the street from the above boundary lines; 
		(3)	Within one (1) block in any direction from the boundary of a Zoning Protected Location; and
		(4)	Within one (1) block in any direction from the boundary of a Park Protected Location.
	(k)	"Park Protected Location" means a proposed location for a Personal Wireless Service Facility in the Public Rights-of-Way that is Adjacent to a City park or open space. 
	(l)	"Park Protected Location Compatibility Standard" means whether a Personal Wireless Service Facility that is proposed to be located in a Park Protected Location would significantly impair the views of a City park or open space or significantly degrade the aesthetic or natural attributes that define the City park or open space. 
	(m)	"Permittee" means a Person issued a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit.
	(n)	"Person" means any individual, group, company, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust, corporation, society, syndicate, club, business, or governmental entity. "Person" shall not include the City. 
	(o)	"Personal Wireless Service" means commercial mobile services provided under a license issued by the FCC.
	(p)	"Personal Wireless Service Facility" or "Facility" means antennas and related facilities used to provide or facilitate the provision of Personal Wireless Service. 
	(q)	"Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit" or "Permit" means a permit issued by the Department pursuant to this Article 25 authorizing a Permittee to construct, install, and maintain a Personal Wireless Service Facility. 
	(r)	"Planning Protected Location" means any of the following proposed locations for a Personal Wireless Service Facility:
		(1)	On an historic, historically or architecturally significant, decorative, or specially designed Street Light Pole located in the Public Rights-of-Way; 
		(2)	On a Utility or Street Light Pole that is on a Public Right-of-Way that is within a national historic landmark district, listed or eligible national register historic district, listed or eligible California register historic district, San Francisco landmark district, local historic or conservation district, or locally significant district, as more specifically described and cataloged in materials prepared and maintained by the Planning Department; 
		(3)	On a Utility or Street Light Pole that is on a Public Right-of-Way that is Adjacent to a national historic landmark, California landmark, San Francisco landmark, structure of merit, architecturally significant building, or locally significant building, as more specifically described and cataloged in materials prepared and maintained by the Planning Department; 
		(4)	On a Utility or Street Light Pole that is on a Public Right-of-Way that the San Francisco General Plan has designated as being most significant to City pattern, defining City form, or having an important street view for orientation; or 
		(5)	On a Utility or Street Light Pole that is on a Public Right-of-Way that the San Francisco General Plan has designated as having views that are rated "excellent" or "good." 
	(s)	"Planning Protected Location Compatibility Standard" means whether an Applicant for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit demonstrates that a proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility would be compatible with any of the Planning Protected Locations as follows: 
		(1)	For a historic, historically or architecturally significant, decorative, or specially designed Street Light Pole, the applicable standard is whether a proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility would significantly degrade the aesthetic attributes that distinguish the Street Light Pole as historic, historically significant, architecturally significant, decorative, or specially designed. 
		(2)	For a Public Right-of-Way that is within a national historic landmark district, listed or eligible national register historic district, listed or eligible California register historic district, San Francisco landmark district, local historic or conservation district, or locally significant district, the applicable standard is whether a proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility would significantly degrade the aesthetic attributes that were the basis for the special designation of the district. 
		(3)	For a Utility or Street Light Pole that is Adjacent to a national historic landmark, California landmark, San Francisco landmark, structure of merit, architecturally significant building, or locally significant building, the applicable standard is whether a proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility would significantly degrade the aesthetic attributes that were the basis for the special designation of the building. 
		(4)	For a Public Right-of-Way that the San Francisco General Plan has designated as being most significant to City pattern, defining City form, or having an important street view for orientation, the applicable standard is whether a proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility would significantly degrade the aesthetic attributes that were the basis for the designation of the street for special protection under the General Plan. 
		(5)	For a Public Right-of-Way that the San Francisco General Plan has designated as having views that are rated "excellent" or "good," the applicable standard is whether a proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility would significantly impair the views of any of the important buildings, landmarks, open spaces, or parks that were the basis for the designation of the street as a view street. 
	(t)	"Public Health Compliance Standard" means whether: (i) any potential human exposure to radio frequency emissions from a proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility described in an Application is within the FCC guidelines; and (ii) noise at any time of the day or night from the proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility described in an Application is not greater than forty-five (45) dBA as measured at a distance three (3) feet from any residential building facade. 
	(u)	"Public Rights-of-Way" means the area in, on, upon, above, beneath, within, along, across, under, and over the public streets, sidewalks, roads, lanes, courts, ways, alleys, spaces, and boulevards within the geographic area of the City in which the City now or hereafter holds any property interest, which is dedicated to public use and which, consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may be used for the purpose of installing and maintaining Personal Wireless Service Facility to provide Personal Wireless Service to customers. 
	(v)	"Step-Down Tier III Facility" means a Personal Wireless Service Facility that would be a Tier III Facility because of the size of the antenna enclosure(s) being added to a Utility or Street Light Pole, but that would not add any equipment enclosure(s) to any Utility or Street Light Pole. 
	(w)	"Step-Down Tier II Facility" means a Personal Wireless Service Facility that would be a Tier II Facility because of the size of the antenna enclosure(s) being added to a Utility or Street Light Pole, but that would not add any equipment enclosure(s) to any Utility or Street Light Pole. 
	(x)	"Street Light Pole" means a pole used solely for street lighting and which is located in the Public Rights-of-Way.
	(y)	"Tier III-A Compatibility Standard" the standard by which the Planning Department shall make a compatibility determination based on an analysis of the additional impact, if any, that a proposed Tier III-A Facility would have on the character of the neighborhood, as compared to the impact a Tier II Facility would have at the same location. 
	(z)	"Tier III-B Compatibility Standard" means a Planning Protected Location Compatibility Standard or Zoning Protected Location Compatibility Standard by which the Planning Department shall make a compatibility determination based on an analysis of the additional impact, if any, that a proposed Tier III-B Facility would have on a Planning Protected Location or Zoning Protected Location, as compared to the impact a Tier II Facility would have at the same location. 
	(aa)	"Tier III-C Compatibility Standard" means a Park Protected Location Compatibility Standard by which the Recreation and Park Department shall make a compatibility determination based on an analysis of the additional impact, if any, that a Proposed Tier III-C Facility would have on a Park Protected Location, as compared to the impact a Tier II Facility would have at the same location. 
	(bb)	"Tier II-B Compatibility Standard" means a Planning Protected Location Compatibility Standard or Zoning Protected Location Compatibility Standard by which the Planning Department shall make a compatibility determination based on an analysis of the additional impact, if any, that a proposed Tier II-B Facility would have on a Planning Protected Location or Zoning Protected Location, as compared to the impact a Tier I Facility would have at the same location. 
	(cc)	"Tier II-C Compatibility Standard" means a Park Protected Location Compatibility Standard by which the Recreation and Park Department shall make a compatibility determination based on an analysis of the additional impact, if any, that a Proposed Tier II-C Facility would have on a Park Protected Location, as compared to the impact a Tier I Facility would have at the same location. 
	(dd)	"Tier I Criteria" is the criteria for the equipment allowed to be used with a Tier I Personal Wireless Service Facility, as set forth in Section 1503(a) below. 
	(ee)	"Tier II Criteria" is the criteria for the equipment allowed to be used with a Tier II Personal Wireless Service Facility, as set forth in Section 1503(b) below. 
	(ff)	"Tier I Facility" is a Personal Wireless Service Facility that meets the Tier I Criteria.
	(gg)	"Tier III Facility" is a Personal Wireless Service Facility that does not meet the Tier I or Tier II Criteria.
	(hh)	"Tier II Facility" is a Personal Wireless Service Facility that meets the Tier II Criteria.
	(ii)	"Tier I Facility Permit" is a Permit to install a Tier I Facility.
	(jj)	"Tier III Facility Permit" is a Permit to install a Tier III Facility.
	(kk)	"Tier II Facility Permit" is a Permit to install a Tier II Facility.
	(ll)	"Tier III Necessity Standard" means whether a Tier II Facility is insufficient to meet the Applicant's service needs because the Applicant has demonstrated one of the following: 
		(1)	A Tier II Facility would not provide the coverage or functionality the Applicant requires to meet its service needs in the vicinity of the proposed Tier III Facility. 
		(2)	Approval of the Application for a Tier III Facility Permit would reduce the number of Personal Wireless Service Facilities that the Applicant would otherwise need to install in the vicinity of the proposed Tier III Facility. 
		(3)	Any other showing related to the Applicant's service needs that the Department may allow by order or regulation.
	(mm)	"Unprotected Location" means a proposed location for a Personal Wireless Service Facility that is neither a Planning Protected, Zoning Protected, nor a Park Protected Location. 
	(nn)	"Utility Pole" means a power pole, telephone pole, or other similar pole located within the Public Rights-of-Way.
	(oo)	"Zoning Protected Location" means on a Utility or Street Light Pole that is on a Public Right-of-Way that is within a Residential or Neighborhood Commercial zoning district under the San Francisco Planning Code. 
	(pp)	"Zoning Protected Location Compatibility Standard" means whether an Applicant for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit on a Public Right-of-Way that is within a Zoning Protected Location demonstrates that a proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility would not significantly detract from the character of the Residential or Neighborhood Commercial zoning district. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1503.  TYPES OF PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES.
	(a)	Tier I Facility. The Department shall not approve an Application for a Tier I Facility Permit unless the Application meets the following Tier I Criteria: 
		(1)	Antenna Facilities.
			(A)	A Tier I Facility may add no more than three (3) antenna enclosures to a Utility or Street Light Pole mounted to either the top or the side of the Utility or Street Light Pole as follows: 
				(i)	If only one (1) antenna enclosure is to be added to a Utility or Street Light Pole, then the antenna enclosure shall be no more than four (4) feet high and have a diameter that is not greater than the diameter of the Utility or Street Light Pole at the point to which it is attached. 
				(ii)	If more than one (1) antenna enclosure is to be added to a Utility or Street Light Pole, then each antenna enclosure shall be no more than four (4) feet high and three (3) inches in diameter. 
		(2)	Supporting Elements. If Applicable Law, or generally applicable written rules of the pole owner, require a supporting element for any antenna enclosure such as a cross-arm or pole top extension, such supporting element shall be no larger, longer, or bulkier than is necessary to comply with Applicable Law or such generally applicable written rules. 
		(3)	Equipment Enclosures. A Tier I Facility may add no more than two (2) equipment enclosures to a Utility or Street Light Poles, as follows: 
			(A)	A primary equipment enclosure installed on the same Utility or Street Light Pole as the antenna enclosure(s), preferably facing the street or perpendicular to the street, shall be no larger than three (3) cubic feet in volume with a width not exceeding twelve (12) inches and a depth not exceeding ten (10) inches. An electric meter and a cut-off switch may be located outside of the primary equipment enclosure; and 
			(B)	A secondary equipment enclosure installed on a Utility or Street Light Pole that is near the Utility or Street Light Pole to be used for the antenna enclosure(s) and primary equipment enclosure, preferably facing the street or perpendicular to the street, shall be no larger than three (3) cubic feet in volume with a width not exceeding twelve (12) inches and a depth not exceeding ten (10) inches. 
		(3)	The Department may, by order, allow a larger primary equipment enclosure if the Applicant demonstrates that the enclosure will contain an electricity meter and cut-off switch, provided that the width of the enclosure does not exceed twelve (12) inches and the depth does not exceed ten (10) inches. 
	(b)	Tier II Facility. The Department shall not approve an Application for a Tier II Facility Permit unless the Application meets the following Tier II Criteria: 
		(1)	Antenna Facilities. A Tier II Facility may add one (1) or more antenna enclosures to a Utility or Street Light Pole mounted to either the top or the side of the Utility or Street Light Pole as follows: 
			(A)	For an installation on top of a Utility or Street Light Pole, the antenna enclosure(s) shall:
				(i)	Be cylindrical in shape;
				(ii)	Not exceed four (4) feet in height; and
				(iii)	Not exceed the diameter of the top of the pole.
			(B)	For an installation on the side of a Utility or Street Light Pole, the size of the antenna enclosure(s) shall:
				(i)	Not exceed four (4) feet in height; and
				(ii)	In the case of a cylindrical antenna enclosure, not exceed eighteen (18) inches in diameter; or
				(iii)	In the case of a rectangular antenna enclosure, not exceed eighteen (18) inches in width or depth.
		(2)	Supporting Elements. If Applicable Law, or generally applicable written rules of the pole owner, require a supporting element for any antenna enclosure such as a cross-arm or pole top extension, such supporting element shall be no larger, longer, or bulkier than is necessary to comply with Applicable Law or such generally applicable written rules. 
		(3)	Equipment Enclosures. A Tier II Facility may add no more than two (2) equipment enclosures to a Utility or Street Light Pole, as follows: 
			(A)	A primary equipment enclosure installed on the same Utility or Street Light Pole as the antenna enclosure(s), preferably facing the street or perpendicular to the street, shall be no larger than four (4) cubic feet in volume, with a width not exceeding twelve (12) inches and a depth not exceeding ten (10) inches. An electric meter and a cut-off switch may be located outside of the primary equipment enclosure; and 
			(B)	A secondary equipment enclosure installed on a Utility or Street Light Pole that is near the Utility or Street Light Pole to be used for the antenna enclosure(s) and primary equipment enclosure, preferably facing the street or perpendicular to the street, shall be no larger than four (4) cubic feet in volume with a width not exceeding twelve (12) inches and a depth not exceeding ten (10) inches. 
			(C)	The Department may, by order, allow a larger primary equipment enclosure if the Applicant demonstrates that the enclosure will contain an electricity meter and cut-off switch, provided that the width of the enclosure does not exceed twelve (12) inches and the depth does not exceed ten (10) inches. 
		(5)	Types of Tier II Facilities.
			(A)	A Tier II Facility shall be designated a Tier II-A Facility if the proposed location for the facility is in an Unprotected Location. 
			(B)	A Tier II Facility shall be designated a Tier II-B Facility if the proposed location for the facility is in a Planning Protected Location or Zoning Protected Location. 
			(C)	A Tier II Facility shall be designated a Tier II-C Facility if the proposed location for the facility is in a Park Protected Location. 
	(c)	Tier III Facility.
		(1)	No Limitations on Equipment. The Department shall not place any limitations on the antennas, antenna enclosures or other equipment that may be contained in an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit. 
		(2)	Types of Tier III Facilities.
			(A)	A Tier III Facility shall be designated a Tier III-A Facility if the proposed location for the facility is in an Unprotected Location. 
			(B)	A Tier III Facility shall be designated a Tier III-B Facility if the proposed location for the facility is in a Planning Protected Location or Zoning Protected Location. 
			(C)	A Tier III-C Facility shall be designated a Tier III-C Facility if the proposed location for the facility is in a Park Protected Location. 
	(d)	Step-Down Facilities.
		(1)	Step-Down Tier II Facility. A Step-Down Tier II Facility shall be designated a Tier I Facility. 
		(2)	Step-Down Tier III Facility. A Step-Down Tier III Facility shall be designated a Tier II Facility. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1504.  INITIAL REVIEW OF A PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY SITE PERMIT APPLICATION.
	(a)	Completeness Review.
		(1)	Initial Determination. Following receipt of an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, the Department shall make an initial determination whether the Application is complete. 
		(2)	Notice of Completeness Determination. The Department shall promptly notify an Applicant for a Personal Wireless Service Facility whether the Application is complete. 
	(b)	Tier Review.
		(1)	Initial Determination. Following a Department determination that an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit is complete, the Department shall make an initial determination as follows: 
			(A)	The Application is for a Tier I, Tier II, or Tier III Facility Permit.
			(B)	The Department is required to refer the Application to the Planning Department, and/or the Recreation and Park Department under Sections 1509(a)(1) and 1510(a)(1) below. 
			(C)	The Department is exercising its discretion to refer an Application for a Tier II-A Facility Permit to the Planning Department and/or the Recreation and Park Department under Sections 1509(a)(2) and 1510(a)(2) below. 
		(2)	Notice of Tier Determination. The Department shall promptly notify an Applicant for a Personal Wireless Service Facility of the Department's tier determination. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1505.  CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
	(a)	Conditions of Approval. Any City department reviewing an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, as required by this Article 25, may add Conditions to its approval, tentative approval, or determination. 
	(b)	Conditions in Writing. Any Conditions that a City department includes in its approval, tentative approval, or determination with respect to an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit shall be in writing. 
	(c)	Notice of Conditions. The Department shall promptly notify the Applicant of any such Conditions and shall give the Applicant a reasonable time to accept or reject the Conditions. 
	(d)	Acceptance of Conditions Required. The Department shall not approve an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit unless the Applicant accepts all of the Conditions added to an approval, tentative approval, or determination by any City department that reviewed the Application. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1506.  STREET TREE.
	(a)	Condition of Approval. When reviewing an application for a Tier II or Tier III Facility Permit, the Planning Department and/or Recreation and Park Department (as appropriate) may require as a Condition of approval that the Permittee plant and maintain an appropriate street tree adjacent to the Utility or Street Light Pole so as to provide a screen for a permitted Tier II or Tier III Facility. 
	(b)	Implementation of Street Tree Requirement. When installation of a street tree is required by the Planning Department and/or Recreation and Park Department, the Department shall implement the requirement as follows: 
		(1)	The Department shall require the Permittee to install a street tree that is a minimum of twenty-four (24)-inch box size. The Department's Bureau of Urban Forestry shall work with the Permittee to select the appropriate species and location for the required tree. 
		(2)	In any instance in which the Department cannot require the Permittee to install a street tree, on the basis of inadequate sidewalk width, interference with utilities, or other reasons regarding the public health, safety, or welfare, the Department shall instead require the Permittee to make an "in-lieu" payment into the Department's "Adopt-A-Tree" fund. This payment shall be in the amount specified in San Francisco Public Works Code  807(f), and shall be payable prior to the Department's issuance of the Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit. 
	(c)	Care and Maintenance of Street Trees. The Permittee shall be responsible for the care and maintenance of any street tree required to be installed in the Public Rights-of-Way under this Section. In this regard, the Permittee shall assume the duty of a "property owner" as set forth in San Francisco Public Works Code  805. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1507.  DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH REVIEW.
	(a)	Department of Public Health Referral. The Department shall refer every Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit to the Department of Public Health for review of the proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility under the Public Health Compliance Standard. 
	(b)	Department of Public Health Determination. The Department of Public Health shall make a determination whether the Application satisfies the Public Health Compliance Standard. The determination of the Department of Public Health shall be in writing and shall set forth the reasons therefor. The Department of Public Health shall transmit its determination to the Department within twenty (20) business days of receipt of the Application from the Department. With the concurrence of the Applicant, the Department of Public Health may extend this review period beyond twenty (20) business days. 
	(c)	Affirmative Determination Required. The Department shall not approve an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit unless the Department of Public Health makes a determination that the Application satisfies the Public Health Compliance Standard. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1508.  DEPARTMENT REVIEW OF A PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY SITE PERMIT APPLICATION.
	(a)	Tier I Facility Permit. The Department shall review an Application for a Tier I Facility Permit to determine whether the Application: 
		(1)	Satisfies the Tier I Criteria; and
		(2)	Receives an affirmative determination from the Department of Public Health under the Public Health Compliance Standard.
	(b)	Tier II-A Facility Permit. The Department shall review an Application for a Tier II-A Facility Permit to determine whether the Application: 
		(1)	Satisfies the Tier II Criteria; and
		(2)	Receives an affirmative determination from the Department of Public Health under the Public Health Compliance Standard.
	(c)	Tier II-B or Tier II-C Facility Permit. The Department shall review an Application for a Tier II-B or Tier II-C Facility Permit to determine whether the Application: 
		(1)	Satisfies the Tier II Criteria;
		(2)	Receives an affirmative determination from the Department of Public Health under the Public Health Compliance Standard; and
		(3)	Receives an affirmative determination from the Planning Department or the Recreation and Park Department (or both if required) under the applicable Tier II-B or Tier II-C Compatibility Standard. 
	(d)	Tier III Facility Permit. The Department shall review an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit to determine whether the Application: 
		(1)	Satisfies the Tier III Necessity Standard;
		(2)	Receives an affirmative determination from the Department of Public Health under the Public Health Compliance Standard; and
		(3)	Receives an affirmative determination from the Planning Department or the Recreation and Park Department (or both if required) under the applicable Tier III-A, Tier III-B, or Tier III-C Compatibility Standard. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1509.  PLANNING DEPARTMENT REVIEW OF A TIER II-B, TIER III-A, OR TIER III-B FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATION.
	(a)	Referral to Planning Department.
		(1)	Referral Required.
			(A)	The Department shall refer an Application for a Tier II-B Facility Permit to the Planning Department for a review of the proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility under the applicable Tier II-B Compatibility Standard. 
			(B)	If the Department determines that an Application for a Tier III-A, or Tier III-B Facility Permit satisfies the Tier III Necessity Standard, the Department shall refer the Application to the Planning Department for a review of the proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility under the applicable Tier III-A, or Tier III-B Compatibility Standard. 
		(2)	Referral Allowed. The Department may refer an Application for a Tier II-A Facility Permit to the Planning Department if the proposed location for the Personal Wireless Service Facility is in the Immediate Vicinity of a Planning Protected or Zoning Protected Location. The Department shall designate such a facility a Tier II-B Facility. The Planning Department shall then review the Application under the Tier II-B Compatibility Standard that would apply to the Planning Protected or Zoning Protected Location that is in the Immediate Vicinity of the proposed Tier II-A Facility. 
	(b)	Planning Department Determination.
		(1)	The Planning Department shall make a determination whether an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit referred to the Planning Department under this Section satisfies the applicable Tier II-B, Tier III-A, or Tier III-B Compatibility Standard. The Planning Department's determination shall be in writing and shall set forth the reasons therefor. The Planning Department shall transmit its determination to the Department within twenty (20) business days of receipt of the Application from the Department. With the concurrence of the Applicant, the Planning Department may extend this review period beyond twenty (20) business days. 
		(2)	The Planning Department's determination that an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit satisfies the Tier II-B of Tier III-B Compatibility Standard for a Zoning Protected Location may include a Condition that the Personal Wireless Service Facility not obstruct the view from or the light into any adjacent residential window. 
	(c)	Affirmative Determination Required. The Department shall not approve an Application for a Tier II-B, Tier III-A, or Tier III-B Facility Permit unless the Planning Department makes a determination that the Application satisfies the applicable Tier II-B, Tier III-A, or Tier III-B Compatibility Standard. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1510.  RECREATION AND PARK DEPARTMENT REVIEW OF A TIER II-C OR TIER III-C FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATION.
	(a)	Referral to Recreation and Park Department.
		(1)	Referral Required.
			(A)	The Department shall refer an Application for a Tier II-C Facility Permit to the Recreation and Park Department for a review of the proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility under the Tier II-C Compatibility Standard. 
			(B)	If the Department determines that an Application for a Tier III-C Facility Permit satisfies the Tier III Necessity Standard, the Department shall refer the Application to the Recreation and Park Department for a review of the proposed Personal Wireless Service Facility under the Tier III-C Compatibility Standard. 
		(2)	Referral Allowed. The Department may refer an Application for a Tier II-A or Tier III-A Permit to the Recreation and Park Department if the proposed location for the Personal Wireless Service Facility is in the Immediate Vicinity of a Park Protected Location. The Department shall designate such a facility a Tier II-C or Tier III-C Facility. The Recreation and Park Department shall then review the Application under the applicable Tier II-C or Tier III-C Compatibility Standard. 
	(b)	Recreation and Park Department Determination. The Recreation and Park Department shall make a determination whether an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit referred to the Planning Department under this Section satisfies the applicable Tier II-C or Tier III-C Compatibility Standard. The Recreation and Park Department's determination shall be in writing and shall set forth the reasons therefor. The Recreation and Park Department shall transmit its determination to the Department within twenty (20) business days of receipt of the Application from the Department. With the concurrence of the Applicant, the Recreation and Park Department may extend this review period beyond twenty (20) business days. 
	(c)	Affirmative Determination Required. The Department shall not approve an Application for a Tier II-C or Tier III-C Facility Permit unless the Recreation and Park Department makes a determination that the Application satisfies the applicable Tier II-C or Tier III-C Compatibility Standard. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1511.  DEPARTMENT DETERMINATION.
	(a)	Determination in Writing.
		(1)	Tentative Approval. A Department tentative approval of an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit shall be in writing and shall set forth the reasons therefor. If a Department tentative approval contains any Conditions, the Conditions shall also be in writing. 
		(2)	Final Determination. A Department final determination to approve or deny an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit shall be in writing and shall set forth the reasons therefor. If a Department final determination to approve an Application contains any Conditions, the Conditions shall also be in writing. 
	(b)	Tier I or Tier II-A Facility Permit.
		(1)	Denial. The Department shall issue a final determination denying an Application for a Tier I or Tier II-A Facility Permit within three (3) business days of any of the following events: 
			(A)	The Department making a determination that the Application does not meet the Tier I or Tier II Criteria, as applicable;
			(B)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Department of Public Health that the Application does not comply with the Public Health Compliance Standard; or 
			(C)	If the Department or the Department of Public Health adds any Conditions to its approval of the Application, the Department's receipt of a notice from the Applicant that it rejects any of those Conditions. 
		(2)	Approval without Conditions. If neither the Department nor the Department of Public Health adds any Conditions to its approval of an Application for a Tier I or Tier II-A Facility Permit, the Department shall issue a final determination approving the Application within three (3) business days of the occurrence of the last of the following events: 
			(A)	The Department making a determination that the Application meets the Tier I or Tier II Criteria, as applicable; or
			(B)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Department of Public Health that the Application complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard. 
		(3)	Approval with Conditions. If the Department or the Department of Public Health adds any Conditions to its approval of an Application for a Tier I or Tier II-A Facility Permit, the Department shall issue a final determination approving the Application within three (3) business days of the occurrence of the last of the following events: 
			(A)	The Department making a determination that the Application meets the Tier I or Tier II Criteria, as applicable;
			(B)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Department of Public Health that the Application complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard; or 
			(C)	The Department's receipt of a notice from the Applicant that it accepts all of those Conditions.
	(c)	Tier II-B or Tier II-C Facility Permit.
		(1)	Denial. The Department shall issue a final determination denying an Application for a Tier II-B or Tier II-C Facility Permit within three (3) business days of any of the following events: 
			(A)	The Department making a determination that the Application does not meet the Tier II Criteria;
			(B)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Department of Public Health that the Application does not comply with the Public Health Compliance Standard; 
			(C)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Planning Department or the Recreation and Park Department that the Application does not meet the applicable Compatibility Standard; or 
			(D)	If any City department that reviewed the Application adds any Conditions to its approval of the Application, the Department's receipt of a notice from the Applicant that it rejects any of those Conditions. 
		(2)	Approval without Conditions. If no City department reviewing an Application for a Tier II-B or Tier II-C Facility Permit adds any Conditions to its approval of the Application, the Department shall issue a final determination approving the Application within three (3) business days of the occurrence of the last of the following events: 
			(A)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Department of Public Health that the Application complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard; or 
			(B)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Planning Department or the Recreation and Park Department (or both if required) that the Application meets the applicable Compatibility Standard. 
		(3)	Approval with Conditions. If any City department reviewing an Application for a Tier II-B or Tier II-C Facility Permit adds any Conditions to its approval of the Application, the Department shall issue a final determination approving the Application within three (3) business days of the occurrence of the last of the following events: 
			(A)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Department of Public Health that the Application complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard; 
			(B)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Planning Department or the Recreation and Park Department (or both if required) that the Application meets the applicable Compatibility Standard; or 
			(C)	The Department's receipt of a notice from the Applicant that it accepts all of those Conditions.
	(d)	Tier III Facility Permit.
		(1)	Denial. The Department shall issue a final determination denying an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit within three (3) business days of any of the following events: 
			(A)	The Department making a determination that the Application does not meet the Tier III Necessity Standard;
			(B)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Department of Public Health that the Application does not comply with the Public Health Compliance Standard; 
			(C)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Planning Department or the Recreation and Park Department (or both if required) that the Application does not meet the applicable Compatibility Standard; or 
			(D)	If any City department reviewing the Application adds any Conditions to its approval of the Application, the Department's receipt of a notice from the Applicant that it rejects any of those Conditions. 
		(2)	Approval without Conditions.
			(A)	If no City department reviewing an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit adds any Conditions to its approval of the Application, the Department shall issue a tentative approval of an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit without Conditions within three (3) business days of the occurrence of the last of the following events: 
				(i)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Department of Public Health that the Application complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard; and 
				(ii)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Planning Department or the Recreation and Park Department (or both if required) that the Application meets the applicable Compatibility Standard. 
			(B)	Following the Department's tentative approval of an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit without any Conditions, the Department shall issue a final determination as follows: 
				(i)	The Department shall require the Applicant to give notice of the tentative approval as required by Section 1512 below; and
				(ii)	If no protest is timely submitted, the Department shall issue a final determination approving the Application within a reasonable time after the time to file a protest has expired; or 
				(iii)	If a protest is timely submitted, the Department shall issue a final determination approving or denying the Application within a reasonable time after the Director issues a decision under Section 1513(g) below. 
		(3)	Approval with Conditions.
			(A)	If any City department reviewing an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit adds any Conditions to its approval of the Application, the Department shall issue a tentative approval of the Application with Conditions within three (3) business days of the occurrence of the last of the following events: 
				(i)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Department of Public Health that the Application complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard; 
				(ii)	The Department's receipt of a determination from the Planning Department or the Recreation and Park Department (or both if required) that the Application meets the applicable Compatibility Standard; or 
				(iii)	The Department's receipt of a notice from the Applicant that it accepts all of those Conditions.
			(B)	Following the Department's tentative approval of an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit with Conditions, the Department shall issue a final determination as follows: 
				(i)	The Department shall require the Applicant to give notice of the tentative approval as required by Section 1512 below; and
				(ii)	If no protest is timely submitted, the Department shall issue a final determination approving the Application within a reasonable time after the time to file a protest has expired; or 
				(iii)	If a protest is timely submitted, the Department shall issue a final determination approving or denying the Application within a reasonable time after the Director issues a decision under Section 1513(g) below. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1512.  NOTICE FOLLOWING TENTATIVE APPROVAL OF A TIER III FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATION.
	(a)	Notice Required. The Department shall require an Applicant for a Tier III Facility Permit to notify the public of a tentative approval of the Application under Sections 1511(d)(2) or 1511(d)(3) above, and to provide the Department with evidence, as the Department may require, of compliance with this requirement. 
	(b)	Types of Notice Required.
		(1)	Notice by Mail. The Applicant shall mail a copy of the notice to: 
			(A)	Any Person owning property or residing within one hundred and fifty (150) feet of the proposed location of the Tier III Facility; and 
			(B)	Any neighborhood association identified by the Planning Department for any neighborhood within three hundred (300) feet of the proposed Tier III Facility. 
		(2)	Notice by Posting. The Applicant shall post a copy of the notice in conspicuous places throughout the block face where the proposed Tier III Facility is to be located. 
	(c)	Contents and Form of Notice. The notice shall contain such information, and be in such form, as the Department reasonably requires in order to inform the general public as to the nature of the Application for a Tier III Facility Permit. At a minimum, the notice shall: 
		(1)	Provide a description and a photo-simulation of the proposed Tier III Facility;
		(2)	Summarize the determinations of any City departments that were necessary for the tentative approval of the Application;
		(3)	Identify any Conditions added by any City departments that have been accepted by the Applicant and are now part of the Application;
		(4)	State that any Person seeking to protest the Application must submit a protest to the Department within twenty (20) days of the date the notice was mailed and posted; 
		(5)	Describe the procedure for submitting a timely protest;
		(6)	Specify the applicable grounds for protesting the Application under this Article 25; and
		(7)	Explain how any interested Person may obtain additional information and documents related to the Application.
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1513.  PROTEST OF A TIER III FACILITY PERMIT.
	(a)	Protest Allowed. Any Person may protest a tentative approval of an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit. A protest must be in writing and must be submitted to the Department within twenty (20) days of the date the notice was mailed and posted as required under Section 1512 above. 
	(b)	Hearing Required. If a protest is timely submitted, the Department shall hold a hearing. The Department shall set a date for the hearing that is at least fifteen (15) days, but no more than forty-five (45) days, after the Department's receipt of the protest, unless the Applicant and any Person submitting a protest agree to a later hearing date. 
	(c)	Notice of Hearing Date. At least ten (10) days before the hearing, the Department shall notify in writing any Person submitting a protest, the Applicant, and any City department that reviewed the Application of the date set for the hearing. The Department shall follow its regular procedures for notifying the general public of the hearing. 
	(d)	Hearing Officer. The Department shall appoint an impartial hearing officer to conduct a public hearing on a protest. 
	(e)	Hearing Record. The hearing record shall include: 
		(1)	The Application and the Department's tentative approval of the Application;
		(2)	Any written determination from the Department, the Planning Department, the Recreation and Park Department, and the Department of Public Health (as applicable); 
		(3)	Any further written evidence from any City departments submitted either prior to or during the hearing;
		(4)	Any written submissions from the Applicant, any Person submitting a protest, or any other interested Person submitted either prior to or during the hearing; and 
		(5)	Any oral testimony from any City departments, the Applicant, any Person submitting a protest, or any interested Person taken during the hearing. 
	(f)	Hearing Officer's Report. The hearing officer shall issue a written report and recommendation within ten (10) days of the close of evidence. The hearing officer shall include in the report a summary of the evidence and a recommendation to the Director to either grant or deny the protest of an Application. 
	(g)	Director's Decision. The Director shall issue a written decision adopting, modifying, or rejecting the hearing officer's written report and recommendation within seven (7) days of receipt of the report. 
	(h)	Grounds for Granting a Protest. The Director may grant a protest of a tentative approval of Application for a Tier III Facility Permit only if the Director finds that the evidence at the hearing supports any one of the following findings: 
		(1)	The Department of Public Health incorrectly determined that the Application complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard;
		(2)	The Department incorrectly determined that the Application meets the Tier III Necessity Standard;
		(3)	In the case of an Application for a Tier III-A or Tier III-B Facility Permit, the Planning Department incorrectly determined that the Application meets the Tier III-A or Tier III-B Compatibility Standard, as applicable; or 
		(4)	In the case of an Application for a Tier III-C Facility Permit, the Recreation and Park Department incorrectly determined that the Application meets the Tier III-C Compatibility Standard. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1514.  NOTICE OF FINAL DETERMINATION.
	(a)	Approval. The Department shall provide notice of a final determination to approve an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facilities Site Permit. 
		(1)	Notice Required.
			(A)	The Department shall promptly mail a notice of final determination to approve an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit to both the Applicant and to any neighborhood association identified by the Planning Department for any neighborhood within three hundred (300) feet of the approved Personal Wireless Service Facility. 
			(B)	If a hearing was held on an Application for a Tier III Facility Permit, the Department shall promptly mail a notice of final determination to approve an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit to any Person who either filed a protest, submitted evidence, or appeared at the hearing, and whose name and address are known to the Department. 
			(C)	The Department shall require an Applicant for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit to promptly post notice of a Department final determination to approve an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit in conspicuous places throughout the block face where the approved Personal Wireless Service Facility is to be located and to provide the Department with evidence, as the Department may require, of compliance with this requirement. 
		(2)	Contents and Form of Notice. A notice of final determination to approve an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit shall contain such information, and be in such form, as the Department reasonably requires in order to inform the general public of the approved Application. At a minimum, the notice of final determination shall: 
			(A)	Provide a description and a photo-simulation of the approved Personal Wireless Service Facility;
			(B)	Summarize the determinations of the City departments that were necessary for the approval of the Application, including any Conditions added by any City departments that were accepted by the Applicant; 
			(C)	State that any Person may file an appeal of the approval of the Application with the Board of Appeals within fifteen (15) days after the date that all notices required by Section 1514(a) above have been provided; 
			(D)	Describe the procedure for submitting a timely appeal;
			(E)	Specify the applicable grounds for appealing the approval of the Application under this Article 25; and
			(F)	Explain how any interested Person may obtain additional information and documents related to the Application.
	(b)	Denial. The Department shall provide notice of a final determination to deny an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facilities Site Permit. 
		(1)	Notice Required. The Department shall promptly mail a notice of final determination to deny an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit to the Applicant. 
		(2)	Contents of Notice. A notice of final determination to deny an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit shall at a minimum: 
			(A)	Summarize the determinations of any City departments that were necessary for the denial of the Application, including any Conditions added by any City departments that were rejected by the Applicant. 
			(B)	State that the Applicant may file an appeal of the denial of the Application with the Board of Appeals within fifteen (15) days of the Department's mailing of the notice. 
			(C)	Describe the procedure for submitting a timely appeal; and
			(D)	Specify the applicable grounds for appealing the denial of the Application under this Article 25.
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1515.  APPEALS.
	(a)	Appeal Permitted. Any Person may appeal a Department final determination with respect to an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit to the Board of Appeals. 
	(b)	Final Determination.
		(1)	Approval or Denial. The Department's approval or denial of an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit shall be an appealable final determination under this Section. 
		(2)	Refusal To Accept Conditions. The Department's denial of an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit based on the Applicant's refusal to accept any Conditions imposed by a City department shall be an appealable final determination under this Section. 
	(c)	Board of Appeals Review. Upon such appeal, the Board of Appeals shall determine whether the final determination was correct under the provisions of this Article 25. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1516.  NOTICE OF COMPLETION AND INSPECTION.
	(a)	Notice of Completion. A Permittee shall notify the Department immediately upon completion of the installation of a Personal Wireless Service Facility. The notice of completion must include a written statement from a certified engineer confirming that the permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard. 
	(b)	Inspection.
		(1)	Required After Installation. The Department shall inspect a Personal Wireless Service Facility installed in the Public Rights-of-Way within a reasonable time after a Permittee provides the Department with a notice of completion required under Section 1516(a) above. The Department shall determine during the inspection whether: 
			(A)	The installation is in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit; and
			(B)	The permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard.
		(2)	Subsequent Inspection. If at any time the Department has a valid reason to believe that a permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility does not comply with the Public Health Compliance Standard, the Department shall require the Permittee to provide additional proof of compliance with the Public Health Compliance Standard. The Department may also request that the Department of Public Health inspect the facility. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1517.  COMPLIANCE.
	(a)	Compliance Required. Any Personal Wireless Service Facility installed in the Public Rights-of-Way pursuant to a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit issued under this Article 25 must comply with the terms and conditions of the Permit and this Article 25. 
	(b)	Notice of Deficiency.
		(1)	Non-Compliance with Permit. If the Department determines, either after an inspection required under Section 1516(b) above or at any other time, that a Personal Wireless Service Facility is not in compliance with the Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit or this Article 25, the Department shall issue a notice of deficiency and require the Permittee to take corrective action to bring the Personal Wireless Service Facility into compliance. 
		(2)	Radio Frequency Emissions. If the Department determines, either after an inspection required under 1515(b) above or at any other time, that potential human exposure to radio frequency emissions from a permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility exceeds FCC guidelines, the Department shall issue a notice of deficiency and require the Permittee to take corrective action to bring the Personal Wireless Service Facility into compliance with FCC guidelines. 
		(3)	Noise. If the Department determines, either after an inspection required under 1516(b) above or at any other time, that noise from a permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility at any time of the day or night exceeds forty-five (45) dBA as measured at a distance three (3) feet from any residential building facade, the Department shall issue a notice of deficiency and require the Permittee to take corrective action to bring the Personal Wireless Service Facility into compliance with the noise limit. 
	(c)	Department Remedies.
		(1)	Required Action. If a Permittee fails to take corrective action with respect to a Personal Wireless Service Facility within a reasonable time after receiving a notice of deficiency the Department shall: 
			(A)	Take all reasonable, necessary, and appropriate action to remedy a Permittee's non-compliance; or
			(B)	Require a Permittee to remove the non-compliant Personal Wireless Service Facility from the Public Rights-of-Way; and
			(C)	Charge to a Permittee the reasonable costs that the City has actually incurred including, but not limited to, administrative costs. 
		(2)	Discretionary Action. In addition to the foregoing, if a Permittee fails to take corrective action with respect to a Personal Wireless Service Facility within a reasonable time after receiving a notice of deficiency the Department may deny any pending Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1518.  ABANDONMENT.
	(a)	Permittee Must Maintain Facilities. Any Personal Wireless Service Facility installed in the Public Rights-of-Way pursuant to a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit issued under this Article 25 must be properly maintained and used to provide Personal Wireless Services. 
	(b)	Notice of Abandonment. A Permittee shall notify the Department, or the Department may determine and notify a Permittee, that a Personal Wireless Service Facility installed in the Public Rights-of-Way has been abandoned either because it has not been properly maintained or because it is no longer being used to provide Personal Wireless Services. In such event, a Permittee shall promptly remove the abandoned Personal Wireless Service Facility as required by the Department and at Permittee's expense. 
	(c)	Remedy for Non-Compliance. If a Permittee fails to remove an abandoned Personal Wireless Service Facility within a reasonable period of time after receiving a notice of abandonment, the Department shall take all reasonable, necessary, and appropriate action to remedy the Permittee's failure to comply with the notice (including removing the Personal Wireless Service Facility) and may charge to the Permittee the reasonable costs the City has actually incurred including, but not limited to, administrative costs. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1519.  TERM OF PERMIT.
	A Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit shall have a term of two (2) years. The term shall commence upon the completion of the inspection required under Section 1516(b)(1) above. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1520.  RENEWAL.
	(a)	Renewal Permitted. At the end of the term set forth in Section 1519 above, the Department may renew a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit for the identical Personal Wireless Service Facility at the same permitted location for four (4) additional two (2)-year terms. 
	(b)	Renewal Application Required. A Permittee seeking to renew a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit must file a renewal Application with the Department prior to the end of the existing term. The renewal Application shall include a written report from a certified engineer confirming that the permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard. 
	(c)	Approval of Renewal Application.
		(1)	Approval Required. The Department shall approve a renewal Application using the existing equipment at the same permitted location provided that, since the commencement of the Permit term as set forth in Section 1519 above, there have been no changes to: (A) Applicable Law that would allow the Department to deny a new Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit for the identical Personal Wireless Service Facility at the permitted location; or (B) readily available technology for Personal Wireless Service Facilities that would make it feasible for the Applicant for a renewal Permit to replace the existing equipment with less visually obtrusive equipment. 
		(2)	Denial Required. The Department shall deny a renewal Application if the Permittee fails to provide the Department with a written report from a certified engineer confirming that the permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility complies with the Public Health Compliance Standard. 
	(d)	Referral to Other Departments. The Department shall refer a renewal Application to other City departments for review before approving or denying the Application under the following circumstances. 
		(1)	Department of Public Health. If Applicable Law with respect to human exposure to radio frequency emissions has changed since the date of the approval of the original Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, the Department shall refer the renewal Application to the Department of Public Health for further review. The Department may not renew the Permit unless the Department of Public Health makes a determination that the Application satisfies the Public Health Compliance Standard and/or other Applicable Law related to human exposure to radio frequency emissions. 
		(2)	Planning Department and Recreation and Park Department.
			(A)	If a renewal Application is for a Personal Wireless Service Facility that is in a location that was not a Planning Protected, Zoning Protected, or Park Protected Location on the date of the approval of the original Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, the Department shall determine whether changes to Applicable Law since that date have made the location a Planning Protected, Zoning Protected, or Park Protected Location. If so, the Department shall refer the renewal Application to the appropriate City department for review under any Compatibility Standard that did not apply to the original Application. 
			(B)	The Department may also exercise its discretion to refer a renewal Application to the Planning Department and/or Recreation and Park Department if the location of the Personal Wireless Service Facility is in the Immediate Vicinity of a Planning Protected, Zoning Protected, or Park Protected Location, whether or not the Department referred the original Application to the applicable City department. 
			(C)	If the Department refers a renewal Application to the Planning Department and/or Recreation and Park Department under this Section, the Department shall not renew the Permit unless the Planning Department and/or Recreation and Park Department recommends approval under the newly applicable Compatibility Standard. 
	(e)	Applicability of Other Provisions of this Article. The other provisions of this Article 25 related to approval of an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit shall only apply to the Department's review of a renewal Application if the Department refers a renewal Application to the Planning and/or Recreation and Park Departments. These provisions shall include, but are not limited to, Notice of Final Determination (Section 1514 above) and Appeals (Section 1515 above). 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1521.  REPLACEMENT OF EQUIPMENT.
	During the term of a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, a Permittee may replace equipment that is part of a permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility; provided that the replacement equipment would be of substantially the same size, appearance, and power as the previously permitted equipment. The Permittee shall notify the Department prior to replacing any permitted equipment. The Permittee shall not install the proposed replacement equipment unless and until the Department notifies Permittee in writing that the Department has determined that the proposed replacement equipment complies with the requirements of this Section. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1522.  MODIFICATION OF PERMIT.
	A Permittee may file an Application with the Department to modify a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit to replace any equipment that is part of a permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility if the proposed replacement equipment would not be of substantially the same size, appearance, and power as the previously permitted equipment. The Department shall not approve an Application to modify a Permit unless the Application complies with all of the requirements of this Article 25. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1523.  DEPOSIT.
	Each Permittee shall submit and maintain with the Department a bond, cash deposit, or other security acceptable to the Department securing the faithful performance of the obligations of the Permittee and its agents under any and all Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permits issued to the Permittee under this Article 25. The deposit shall be in the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in favor of the "Department of Public Works, City and County of San Francisco." If, in accordance with this Article 25, the Director deducts any amounts from such a deposit, the Permittee must restore the full amount of the deposit prior to the Department's issuance of a subsequent Permit. The Department shall return the deposit to the Permittee should Permittee cease to operate any Personal Wireless Service Facilities in the Public Rights-of-Way. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1524.  LIABILITY.
	As a condition of a Personal Wireless Service Site Facility Site Permit, each Permittee agrees on its behalf and on behalf of any agents, successors, or assigns to be wholly responsible for the construction, installation, and maintenance of any permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility. Each Permittee and its agents are jointly and severally liable for all consequences of such construction, installation, and maintenance of a Personal Wireless Service Facility. The issuance of any Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, inspection, repair suggestion, approval, or acquiescence of any person affiliated with the City shall not excuse any Permittee or its agents from such responsibility or liability. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1525.  INDEMNIFICATION AND DEFENSE OF CITY.
	(a)	Indemnification of City. As a condition of a Personal Wireless Service Site Facility Site Permit, each Permittee agrees on its behalf and on behalf of its agents, successors, or assigns, to indemnify, defend, protect, and hold harmless the City from and against any and all claims of any kind arising against the City as a result of the issuance of a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit including, but not limited to, a claim allegedly arising directly or indirectly from the following: 
		(1)	Any act, omission, or negligence of a Permittee or its any agents, successors, or assigns while engaged in the permitting, construction, installation, or maintenance of any Personal Wireless Service Facility authorized by a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, or while in or about the Public Rights-of-Way that are subject to the Permit for any reason connected in any way whatsoever with the performance of the work authorized by the Permit, or allegedly resulting directly or indirectly from the permitting, construction, installation, or maintenance of any Personal Wireless Service Facility authorized under the Permit; 
		(2)	Any accident, damage, death, or injury to any of a Permittee's contractors or subcontractors, or any officers, agents, or employees of either of them, while engaged in the performance of the construction, installation, or maintenance of any Personal Wireless Service Facility authorized by a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, or while in or about the Public Rights-of-Way that are subject to the Permit, for any reason connected with the performance of the work authorized by the Permit, including from exposure to radio frequency emissions; 
		(3)	Any accident, damage, death, or injury to any Person or accident, damage, or injury to any real or personal property in, upon, or in any way allegedly connected with the construction, installation, or maintenance of any Personal Wireless Service Facility authorized by a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, or while in or about the Public Rights-of-Way that are subject to the Permit, from any causes or claims arising at any time, including any causes or claims arising from exposure to radio frequency emissions; and 
		(4)	Any release or discharge, or threatened release or discharge, of any hazardous material caused or allowed by a Permittee or its agents about, in, on, or under the Public Rights-of-Way. 
	(b)	Defense of the City. Each Permittee agrees that, upon the request of the City, the Permittee, at no cost or expense to the City, shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City against any claims as set forth in Sections 1525(a) above, regardless of the alleged negligence of City or any other party, except only for claims resulting directly from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City. Each Permittee specifically acknowledges and agrees that it has an immediate and independent obligation to defend the City from any claims that actually or potentially fall within the indemnity provision, even if the allegations are or may be groundless, false, or fraudulent, which obligation arises at the time such claim is tendered to the Permittee or its agent by the City and continues at all times thereafter. Each Permittee further agrees that the City shall have a cause of action for indemnity against the Permittee for any costs the City may be required to pay as a result of defending or satisfying any claims that arise from or in connection with a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, except only for claims resulting directly from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City. Each Permittee further agrees that the indemnification obligations assumed under a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit shall survive expiration of the Permit or completion of installation of any Personal Wireless Service Facility authorized by the Permit. 
	(c)	Additional Requirements. The Department may specify in a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit such additional indemnification requirements as are necessary to protect the City from risks of liability associated with the Permittee's construction, installation, and maintenance of a Personal Wireless Service Facility. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1526.  INSURANCE.
	(a)	Minimum Coverages. The Department shall require that each Permittee maintain in full force and effect, throughout the term of a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, an insurance policy or policies issued by an insurance company or companies satisfactory to the City's Risk Manager. Such policy or policies shall, at a minimum, afford insurance covering all of the Permittee's operations, vehicles, and employees, as follows: 
		(1)	Workers' compensation, in statutory amounts, with employers' liability limits not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) each accident, injury, or illness. 
		(2)	Commercial general liability insurance with limits not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage, including contractual liability, personal injury, products and completed operations. 
		(3)	Commercial automobile liability insurance with limits not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage, including owned, non-owned and hired auto coverage, as applicable. 
		(4)	Contractors' pollution liability insurance, on an occurrence form, with limits not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage and any deductible not to exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000) each occurrence. 
	(b)	Other Insurance Requirements.
		(1)	Said policy or policies shall include the City and its officers and employees jointly and severally as additional insureds, shall apply as primary insurance, shall stipulate that no other insurance effected by the City will be called on to contribute to a loss covered thereunder, and shall provide for severability of interests. 
		(2)	Said policy or policies shall provide that an act or omission of one insured, which would void or otherwise reduce coverage, shall not reduce or void the coverage as to any other insured. Said policy or policies shall afford full coverage for any claims based on acts, omissions, injury, or damage which occurred or arose, or the onset of which occurred or arose, in whole or in part, during the policy period. 
		(3)	Said policy or policies shall be endorsed to provide thirty (30) days advance written notice of cancellation or any material change to the Department. 
		(4)	Should any of the required insurance be provided under a claims-made form, a Permittee shall maintain such coverage continuously throughout the term of a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, and, without lapse, for a period of three (3) years beyond the expiration or termination of the Permit, to the effect that, should occurrences during the term of the Permit give rise to claims made after expiration or termination of the Permit, such claims shall be covered by such claims-made policies. 
		(5)	Should any of the required insurance be provided under a form of coverage that includes a general annual aggregate limit or provides that claims investigation or legal defense costs be included in such general annual aggregate limit, such general aggregate limit shall be double the occurrence or claims limits specified in Section 1526(a) above. 
	(c)	Indemnity Obligation. Such insurance shall in no way relieve or decrease a Permittee's or its agent's obligation to indemnify the City under Section 1525 above. 
	(d)	Proof of Insurance. Before the Department will issue a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit, a Permittee shall furnish to the Department certificates of insurance and additional insured policy endorsements with insurers that are authorized to do business in the State of California and that are satisfactory to the City evidencing all coverages set forth in Section 1526 (a) above. 
	(e)	Self-Insurance. Where a Permittee is self-insured, and such insurance is no less broad and affords no less protection to the City than the requirements specified in Section 1526(a) above, the Department, in consultation with the City's Risk Manager, may accept such insurance as satisfying the requirements of Section 1526(a) above. Evidence of such self-insurance shall be provided in the manner required by the City's Risk Manager. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1527.  FEES AND COSTS.
	(a)	Application Fees. City departments shall impose fees for review of an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit. The purpose of these fees is to enable City departments to recover their costs related to reviewing an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit. 
		(1)	Department Application Fee. Each Applicant for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit shall pay to the Department a non-refundable Application fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each Personal Wireless Service Facility proposed in the Application. 
		(2)	Other City Department Application Fees. Where, as required under this Article 25, the Department has referred an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit to the Planning Department, the Recreation and Park Department, or the Department of Public Health, an Applicant shall pay the following additional fees for each Personal Wireless Service Facility contained in an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit. 
			(A)	A Planning Department non-refundable Application fee of one hundred ninety dollars ($190.00) plus time and materials for any review that takes more than thirty (30) minutes. 
			(B)	A Recreation and Park Department non-refundable Application fee of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) plus time and materials for any review that takes more than thirty (30) minutes. 
			(C)	A Department of Public Health non-refundable Application fee of one hundred eighty-one dollars ($181.00) plus time and materials for any review that takes more than sixty (60) minutes. 
	(b)	Inspection Fees. The Department and the Department of Public Health shall impose fees for the inspection of a permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility. The purpose of these fees is to enable these City departments to recover their costs related to inspecting a permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility. 
		(1)	Department Inspection Fee. Each Permittee shall pay the Department a non-refundable time and materials inspection fee not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to inspect a permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility as required under Section 1516(b) above. 
		(2)	Department of Public Health Inspection Fee. Each Permittee shall pay the Department of Public Health a non-refundable time and materials inspection fee to inspect a permitted Personal Wireless Service Facility where such inspection is required or requested under Section 1516(b) above. 
	(c)	Adjustment of Fees for CPI. Beginning with fiscal year 2011-2012, the fees established herein may be adjusted each year, without further action by the Board of Supervisors, to reflect changes in the relevant Consumer Price Index ("CPI") (as determined by the Controller). No later than April 15th of each year, the Director shall submit the current fee schedule to the Controller, who shall apply the CPI adjustment to produce a new fee schedule for the following year. No later than May 15th of each year, the Controller shall file a report with the Board of Supervisors reporting the new fee and certifying that the fees produce sufficient revenue to support the costs of providing the services for which the Permit fee is charged, and that the fees do not produce revenue that exceeds the costs of providing the services for which each Permit fee is charged. 
	(d)	Discretion to Require Additional Fees. In instances where the review of an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit is or will be unusually costly to the Department or to other City departments, the Director, in his or her discretion, may, after consulting with other applicable City departments, agencies, boards, or commissions, require an Applicant for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit to pay a sum in excess of the amounts charged pursuant to this Section 1527. This additional sum shall be sufficient to recover actual costs incurred by the Department and/or other City departments, agencies, boards, or commissions, in connection with an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permit and shall be charged on a time and materials basis. Whenever additional fees are charged, the Director, upon request, shall provide in writing the basis for the additional fees and an estimate of the additional fees. 
	(e)	Deposit of Fees. All fees paid to the Department for Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permits shall be deposited in the Public Works Excavation Fund established by San Francisco Administrative Code Section 10.100-230. All other fees shall go directly to the appropriate City department. 
	(f)	Reimbursement of City Costs. A City department may determine that it requires the services of a technical expert in order to evaluate an Application for a Personal Wireless Service Facility. In such case, the Department shall not approve the Application unless the Applicant agrees to reimburse the applicable City department for the reasonable costs incurred by that department for the services of a technical expert. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
SEC. 1528.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Article 25 or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, invalid, or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Article 25 or any part thereof. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivision paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. 
(Added by Ord. 12-11, File No. 100041)
ARTICLE 26*:
ILLEGAL DUMPING
Sec. 1600.Title.Sec. 1601.Purpose and Intent.Sec. 1602.Definitions.Sec. 1603.Prohibited Dumping Activity.Sec. 1604.Abatement.Sec. 1605.Enforcement  Injunctive Relief, Civil Penalties, Costs, and Attorneys' Fees.
SEC. 1600.*  TITLE.
	This Article shall be known as the "Illegal Dumping Ordinance."
(Added by Ord. 73-11, File No. 110222, App. 5/5/2011, Eff. 6/4/2011)
SEC. 1601.*  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
	The Board of Supervisors finds and declares that:
	(a)	Dumping on streets, sidewalks, public rights-of-way, and other public properties within the City and County of San Francisco is detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the community and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Dumping in public spaces creates urban blight and not only impedes the paths of travel for pedestrian and vehicular traffic and is detrimental to businesses and personal pursuits, but pollutes public spaces with potentially harmful and toxic substances, degrades neighborhoods, and encourages others to unlawfully dispose of other waste and debris, all fostering a disrespect of public property and of the community.
	(b)	Cleaning up and abating unlawfully dumped material on public properties costs the City and County of San Francisco tens of thousands of dollars a year. The City is rarely able to recoup those costs from the individuals and entities who commit the illegal dumps.
	(c)	Because dumping on public properties and rights-of-way is hereby deemed a nuisance, immediate and effective abatement against the parties responsible for the unlawful dumping is essential to deter these illegal acts and may be accomplished through the judicial procedures outlined herein.
	(d)	The City is enacting this legislation pursuant to and in accordance with California Government Code Section 38771, and California Civil Code Sections 3479 and 3480.
	(e)	Nothing in this Article shall be construed to in any way limit the City's right to enforce any other provision of the Municipal Code or state law, or to create a duty or obligation on the part of the City to enforce this Article.
(Added by Ord. 73-11, File No. 110222, App. 5/5/2011, Eff. 6/4/2011)
SEC. 1602.*  DEFINITIONS.
	Unless the context requires otherwise, the following definitions shall govern the construction of this Article:
	(a)	"City" means the City and County of San Francisco.
	(b)	"Debris and Waste Construction Material" includes any wood, brick, plaster, glass, cement, roofing material, composite, sheet rock, sheet metal, wire, pipe and other materials related to the remodeling, construction or repair of, or the partial or total demolition of, houses, buildings or other structures.
	(c)	"Director" means the Director of the Department of Public Works or his or her designee.
	(d)	"Person" means and includes companies, corporations, limited liability companies, estates, associations, partnerships, trusts, unincorporated associations and one or more individual human beings.
	(e)	"Prevailing Party" has the same meaning as set forth in California Code of Civil Procedure Sec. 1032, or any successor provision. "Prevailing Party" includes the City in actions where the City obtains an injunction and/or civil penalties or other monies under this Article or State law.
	(f)	"Public Property" includes any portion of a street, road, right-of-way, sidewalk, park, lot, or public or other land owned, operated, leased, or maintained by the City and County of San Francisco.
	(g)	"Responsible Party" includes any Person who causes or allows or contributes to or participates in actions which constitute a nuisance under this Article.
(Added by Ord. 73-11, File No. 110222, App. 5/5/2011, Eff. 6/4/2011)
SEC. 1603.*  PROHIBITED DUMPING ACTIVITY.
	(a)	It shall be prohibited for any Person to deposit, leave, place, keep, maintain, or abandon, Debris and Waste Construction Materials, industrial materials, or more than 100 pounds total of any other waste, refuse, or debris on any Public Property without the lawful and express written permission of the City and County of San Francisco.
	(b)	Any activity or action that violates this Article shall be, and is hereby declared, a public nuisance.
	(c)	Nothing in this Article shall be construed to authorize or allow any Person to deposit, leave, place, keep, maintain, or abandon, any other property or materials, in any amount, on any Public Property without the lawful and express written permission of the City and County of San Francisco, other than to deposit trash in an appropriate designated receptacle.
(Added by Ord. 73-11, File No. 110222, App. 5/5/2011, Eff. 6/4/2011)
SEC. 1604.*  ABATEMENT
	(a)	The Director may require or take any necessary abatement or enforcement action to clean up or contain any material dumped on Public Property, including ordering the Responsible Party to remove and appropriately dispose of the material. The Director may ask any other City department or necessary state agency for assistance in abating any nuisance pursuant to this Article.
	(b)	Any costs or monies expended by the Department of Public Works or any other department of the City and County of San Francisco to abate a nuisance under this Article may be recovered in a civil action as described in Section 1605.
(Added by Ord. 73-11, File No. 110222, App. 5/5/2011, Eff. 6/4/2011)
SEC. 1605.*  ENFORCEMENT  INJUNCTIVE RELIEF, CIVIL PENALTIES, COSTS, AND ATTORNEYS' FEES.
	(a)	The City Attorney may enforce the provisions of this Article through a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
	(b)	The City Attorney may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for an order seeking injunctive relief to abate or remove any nuisance described in this Article, to restrain any Responsible Party from taking any action contrary to the provisions of this Article or to require any Responsible Party to take action to comply with the provisions of this Article or an order by the Director to remove and appropriately dispose of material illegally dumped on Public Property.
	(c)	In any civil court action brought by the City Attorney to enforce this Article in which the City succeeds in obtaining any order from the Court, the City shall be entitled to recover from any and all Responsible Parties all of its costs of investigation, enforcement, abatement, and litigation.
		(1)	The City shall be entitled to recover civil penalties from each and every Responsible Party in an amount that is not less than twice the amount it cost the City to abate the nuisance. Costs to the City to abate the nuisance shall include any personnel, equipment, and other charges incurred by the City related to the investigation, abatement, clean-up, and/or containment of Debris and Waste Construction Materials, industrial materials, or more than 100 pounds of any other waste, refuse, or debris dumped on Public Property. This civil penalties provision is designed to compensate the City for any costs it incurred to investigate and abate the unlawful acts of any Responsible Party and for the ancillary health hazards and inconveniences caused to the City and its residents, rights of way blocked, traffic delays or detours, and any personal or business difficulties suffered from the maintenance of illegally dumped materials on Public Property.
		(2)	The Prevailing Party in any court action to abate a nuisance pursuant to this Article shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys' fees.
	(d)	Nothing in this Article shall be interpreted as restricting or otherwise limiting the enforcement authority conferred upon other City employees, City agencies, or state agencies by other provisions of the Municipal Code or state law.
	(e)	Nothing in this Article shall be interpreted as restricting, precluding or otherwise limiting a separate or concurrent criminal prosecution under the Municipal Code or state law. Jeopardy shall not attach as a result of any court action to abate a nuisance pursuant to this Article.
(Added by Ord. 73-11, File No. 110222, App. 5/5/2011, Eff. 6/4/2011)
References to Ordinances
Ordinances Affecting the Public Works Code
Publisher's Note:  The following table lists all ordinances affecting the Public Works Code passed by the Board of Supervisors beginning in 2011. The table includes links to the ordinances (as maintained in PDF format on the Board of Supervisors' web site) and to the code sections affected. For other legislation, including older ordinances and those affecting other codes, please refer to the Comprehensive Ordinance Table or the Board's "Legislation Passed" web site.
Jump to:
2011 Ordinances
2012 Ordinances
2013 Ordinances

New Ordinances
2011
Ord. No.File No.Eff. DateShort Title and Code Sections Affected12-1110004102/13/11Public Works Code, Administrative Code - Personal Wireless Service Facility Site Permits and Associated Fees

Sections Affected:
Art. 25, Secs. 1500 to 1528 (Added)13-1110144502/17/11Public Works Code - Banners on the Path of Gold

Sections Affected:
184.78 (Amended)18-1110114703/18/11Public Works Code - Establishment of Regulatory Controls for the Discharge of Fats, Oils, and Grease Into Sewers

Sections Affected:
140 to 140.7 (Added)73-1111022206/04/11Public Works Code - Declaring Illegal Dumping on Public Property a Nuisance and Providing a Mechanism for Abating and Enforcing that Nuisance

Sections Affected:
Art. 26, Secs. 1600, 1601, 1602, 1603, 1604, 1605 (Added)74-1111028006/04/11Public Works Code, Police Code - Posting of Signs on City Property, Increasing Penalty, and Enforcement

Sections Affected:
184.62, 184.63, 184.65 (Amended)77-1111028106/11/11Public Works Code, Administrative Code, and Health Code - Consolidate Existing Department of Public Works' Nuisance Enforcement, Abatement, and Cost Collection Processes

Sections Affected:
706.9 (Added); 170, 174.1, 707.1, 727, 735 (Amended); 174.2, 174.3, 174.4, 174.5, 174.6, 174.7, 174.8, 174.9, 174.10, 174.11, 174.12, 174.13, 728, 729, 730, 731, 732, 733, 734, 735.1, 735.2, 735.3, 735.4 (Repealed)158-1111070908/31/11Public Works - Temporary Street Occupancy Fees

Sections Affected:
724.1 (Amended)
2012
Ord. No.File No.Eff. DateShort Title and Code Sections Affected34-1211128103/22/12Sidewalk Width Changes - Establishing a Streamlined Process for Certain Changes

Sections Affected:
2.1.1 (Amended)
2013
Ord. No.File No.Eff. DateShort Title and Code Sections Affected114-1313025107/28/13Public Works Code - Public Improvements as Gifts

Sections Affected:
791 (Added)119-1312019307/28/13Public Works Code - Mobile Food Truck Facilities Locational Requirements

Sections Affected:
184.86.1 (Added); 184.80, 184.83, 184.84, 184.85, 184.88, 184.89, 184.93, 184.96, 184.97, 184.98 (Amended)155-1313036908/24/13Building, Health, Public Works Codes - Soil and/or Groundwater Testing Requirements 

Sections Affected:
Art. 20, Secs. 1000, 1001, 1004, 1006, 1012, 1014 (Repealed)260-1313081412/14/13Public Works Code - Control of Construction Site Runoff

Sections Affected:
146, 146.1, 146.2, 146.3, 146.4, 146.5, 146.6, 146.7, 146.8, 146.10, 146.11 (Added) 
New Ordinances
Publisher's Note:  The following table lists all ordinances affecting the Public Works Code that have been passed by the Board of Supervisors but that are not yet effective. The table includes links to the amending ordinances (as maintained in PDF format on the Board of Supervisors' web site) and to the code sections affected. For other legislation, including older ordinances and those affecting other codes, please refer to the Comprehensive Ordinance Table or the Board's "Legislation Passed" web site.

Ord. No.File No.Eff. DateShort Title and Code Sections Affected[None] 