
SAN FRANCISCO 
BUILDING INSPECTION COMMISSION CODES

The San Francisco Building Inspection Commission (BIC) Codes are current through:

Ordinances approved through December 31, 2013 and
Administrative Bulletins approved through November 12, 2013.



Building Code
Electrical Code
Green Building Code
Housing Code
Mechanical Code
Plumbing Code

AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
432 Walnut Street, Suite 1200
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202-3909
(800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
www.amlegal.com

BUILDING CODE
2013 Edition
The San Francisco Building Code is current through:
Ordinances approved through December 31, 2013 and
Administrative Bulletins approved through November 12, 2013.


Copyright © 2014
by
THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
A Municipal Corporation

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed by any means or stored in a database or retrieval system without prior written permission of the City and County of San Francisco.
PUBLISHER'S NOTE
	The full 2013 San Francisco Building Code consists of the 2012 International Building Code, as amended by California (2013 California Building Code), and as further amended by these San Francisco amendments, as well as the 2012 International Residential Code as amended by California (2013 California Residential code) and as further amended by these San Francisco amendments.
	The San Francisco Building Code amendments contained herein are designed to be used in conjunction with the 2013 California Building Code and include all residential code provisions of the 2013 California Residential Code, including more restrictive provisions carried forward into these amendments and so noted.
	The San Francisco Building Code amendments contained herein were adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco on November 5, 2013, by Ordinances 254-13 and 255-13, effective January 1, 2014.

2013 California Building Code
(which incorporates the 2012 International Building code)}+2013 California Residential Code
(which incorporates the 2012 International Residential Code)Complete 2013 San Francisco Building Code+2013 San Francisco Amendments

	Note that prior editions of the San Francisco Building Code included material derived from the California Green Building Standards Code. Provisions relating to that subject matter currently are published separately as the 2013 San Francisco Green Building Code.
Supplements to this Code and complete copies of all six
Building Inspection Commission (BIC) Codes
(Building, Electrical, Green Building, Housing, Mechanical, and Plumbing)
can be ordered from:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
432 Walnut Street, Suite 1200
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202-3909
(800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
Text Format:
	The text in this publication is formatted to allow the user to quickly and easily determine the source of the included material. Language derived from the 2013 California Codes that is unchanged by local amendment is printed in shaded text (see below). Language constituting San Francisco amendments to the California Codes is printed in unformatted (or “plain”) text. In either case, bold and/or italic typefaces may be used as appropriate for emphasis, etc. See below for examples.
	To further simplify use of the San Francisco amendments with corresponding sections of the 2013 California Codes, explanatory remarks appearing in italics are provided (in boxes at the beginning of affected provisions) indicating whether the San Francisco amendment to the California Code is adding, revising, or replacing a section or portion of a section.
	To summarize:
Explanatory remarks are boxed and italicized.
	Unchanged language from the 2013 California Codes is shaded, and may include bold and/or italicized formatting.
	San Francisco amendments are printed in unformatted (“plain”) text, and may include bold and/or italicized formatting.
Historical Notations:
	Language which has been added, amended, or deleted from the 2013 publication of the San Francisco Building Code is indicated with an historical notation, setting forth the ordinance number and date of adoption.
Chapter 1
SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION
Division I
CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATION
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Division II
SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION
	See Chapter 1A for the Administration provisions of the San Francisco Building Code.
Chapter 1A
SAN FRANCISCO ADMINISTRATION
Add chapter as follows:
	The City and County of San Francisco adopts the following Chapter 1A for the purpose of administration of the 2013 San Francisco Building Code. Certain specific administrative and general code provisions as adopted by various state agencies may be found in Chapter 1, Divisions I and II of this code.
SECTION 101A – TITLE, SCOPE AND GENERAL
101A.1  Title. These regulations shall be known as the "2013 San Francisco Building Code," may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this code." The 2013 San Francisco Building Code amends the 2013 California Building Code and the 2013 California Residential Code which is Part 2 & 2.5  respectively of the 12 parts of the official compilation and publication of the adoption amendment and repeal of the building regulations to the California Code of Regulations, Title 24, also referred to as the California Building Standards Code. The California Building Code and California Residential Code incorporates by adoption the 2012 International Building Code and 2012 International Residential Code respectively of the International Code Council with necessary California amendments.
101A.2  Purpose. The purpose of this code is to establish the minimum requirements to safeguard the public health, safety and general welfare through structural strength, means of egress facilities, stability, access to persons with disabilities, sanitation, adequate lighting and ventilation and energy conservation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment; to regulate and control the demolition of all buildings and structures, and the quarrying, grading, excavation, and filling of land; and to provide safety to fire fighters and emergency responders during emergency operations.
	The further purpose of this code is to ensure that barrier-free design is incorporated in all buildings, facilities, site work and other developments to which this code applies and to ensure that they are accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities.
101A.3  Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures.
101A.3.1  Non-state-regulated buildings, structures and applications. Except as modified by local ordinance pursuant to Section 1.1.8, the following standards in the California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Parts 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, and 11 shall apply to all occupancies and applications not regulated by a state agency.
101A.4  Effective Date of this code. 
101A.4.1  Only those standards approved by the California Building Standards Commission and code amendments, additions or deletions adopted by the City and County of San Francisco that are effective at the time an application for building permit is deemed acceptable for building plan review by the Department of Building Inspection shall apply to the plans and specifications for, and to the construction performed under, that permit. For the effective dates of the provisions contained in this code, see History Notes page of this code.
101A.4.2  Appendices. Provisions contained in the appendices of this code shall not apply unless specifically adopted by a state agency or adopted by a local enforcing agency in compliance with Health and Safety Code Section 18901 et seq. for Building Standards Law, Health and Safety Code Section 17950 for State Housing Law and Health and Safety Code Section 13869.7 for Fire Protection Districts.
101A.5  Validity. If any chapter section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, contrary to statute, exceeding the authority of the state as stipulated by statutes, or otherwise inoperative, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this code.
101A.6  Reference Documents. The codes, standards and publications adopted and set forth in this code, including other codes, standards and publications referred to therein are, by title and date of publication, hereby adopted as standard reference documents of this code.
	When this code does not specifically cover any subject relating to building design and construction, recognized architectural or engineering practices shall be employed. The National Fire Codes and Fire Protection Handbook of the National Fire Protection Association are permitted to be used as authoritative guides in determining recognized fire-prevention engineering practices.
	In the event of any differences between these building standards and the standard reference documents, the text of these building standards shall govern.
101A.7  Order of Precedence.
101A.7.1  Specific provisions. Where a specific provision varies from a general provision, the specific provision shall apply.
101A.7.2  Conflicts. When the requirements of this code conflict with the requirements of any other part of the California Building Standards Code, Title 24, any provision contained elsewhere in the San Francisco Municipal Code, or any regulation or requirement adopted by the Public Utilities Commission or other City agency under its Charter authority, the most restrictive requirement shall prevail.
101A.7.3  Fire codes. Nothing in these building standards shall diminish the requirements of the state fire marshal.
Sections 101A.8 – 101A.19  are reserved.
101A.20  Central Permit Bureau. A Central Permit Bureau is hereby established in the Department of Building Inspection. The Central Permit Bureau shall process applications for permits required in Section 106A.1 of this code and for certain other permits required by ordinance or regulation for other departments and bureaus of the City and County of San Francisco. Permit processing procedures are detailed in an Administrative Bulletin issued by the Building Official in cooperation with other departments and bureaus. The Central Permit Bureau shall arrange for the review of permit applications, the issuance of permits and the collection of fees as fixed by law.
	The fees collected by the Central Permit Bureau shall be credited to the account of the department or bureau authorized by ordinance or Charter to approve such permits. The Controller, in conjunction with the Central Permit Bureau and the concerned departments and bureaus, shall analyze the cost to the City and County of San Francisco of regulation and inspection required by each such class of permit and shall propose the rates to be fixed therefor by ordinance, which shall not be less than the cost to the City and County of San Francisco of such regulation and inspection.
101A.21  Safety Assessment Placards. This section establishes standard placards to be used to indicate the condition of a building or structure after a natural or human-created disaster. A description of the placards to be used is set forth in this Section. The Building Official and their authorized representatives are authorized to post the appropriate placard at each entry point to a building or structure upon completion of a safety assessment. A safety assessment is a visual, nondestructive examination of a building or structure for the purpose of determining the condition for continued occupancy.
101A.21.1  Application of provisions. The provisions of this section are applicable to all buildings and structures of all occupancies regulated by the City and County of San Francisco.
101A.21.2  Description of placards. The Department of Building Inspection shall use the form of standard placards that the Applied Technology Council has recommended and revises from time to time. The actual placards shall be in a form that the Building Official approves. In addition, the ordinance number, the name of the department, its address, and phone number shall be permanently affixed to each placard. In addition, each placard shall include the following language or its equivalent as determined by the Building Official: Any unauthorized removal, alteration, or covering of this placard shall be considered a violation of the San Francisco Building Code and the responsible person(s) shall be subject to applicable penalties set forth in the code. A general description of the placards is as follows:
	1.	INSPECTED – LAWFUL OCCUPANCY PERMITTED. This placard is to be posted on any building or structure where no apparent structural hazard has been found. This placard is not intended to mean that there is no damage to the building or structure.
	2.	RESTRICTED USE. This placard is to be posted on each building or structure that is damaged to such an extent that restrictions on continued occupancy are required. The person or persons authorized to post this placard will note in general terms the type of damage encountered and will note with specificity any restrictions on continued occupancy.
	3.	UNSAFE – DO NOT ENTER OR OCCUPY. This placard is to be posted on each building or structure that is damaged to such an extent that continued occupancy poses a threat to life safety. Buildings or structures posted with this placard shall not be entered under any circumstance except as authorized in writing by the Building Official of Building Inspection or his or her authorized representative. Authorized safety assessment individuals or teams may enter these buildings at any time. This placard is not to be used or considered to be a demolition order. The person or persons authorized to post this placard will note in general terms the type of damage encountered.
101A.21.3  Removal or alteration prohibited. Once it has been attached to a building or structure, a placard is not to be removed, altered, or covered except by an authorized representative of the Department or upon written notification from the Department. Any unauthorized removal, alteration, or covering of a placard shall be considered a violation of this code and the responsible person(s) shall be subject to the penalties set forth herein.
SECTION 102A – UNSAFE BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES OR PROPERTY
	All buildings, structures, property, or parts thereof, regulated by this code that are structurally unsafe or not provided with adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life, safety or health of the occupants or the occupants of adjacent properties or the public by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment, or by reason of occupancy or use in violation of law or ordinance, or were erected, moved, altered, constructed or maintained in violation of law or ordinance are, for the purpose of this chapter, unsafe.
	Whenever the Building Official determines by inspection that property or properties either improved or unimproved are unstable because of landslide, subsidence or inundation or that such occurrences are deemed imminent as described above, the Building Official shall give written notice to the owner or owners that said property or properties are unsafe. The notice shall specify the conditions creating the unsafe classification.
	All such unsafe buildings, structures, property, or portions thereof, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be vacated, repaired, altered or demolished as hereinafter provided.
102A.1  Fire Hazard. No person, including but not limited to the state and its political subdivisions, operating any occupancy subject to these regulations shall permit any fire hazard, as defined in this section, to exist on premises under their control, or fail to take immediate action to abate a fire hazard when requested to do so by the enforcing agency.
	Note: "Fire hazard" as used in these regulations means any condition, arrangement or act which will increase, or may cause an increase of, the hazard or menace of fire to a greater degree than customarily recognized as normal by persons in the public service of preventing, suppressing or extinguishing fire; or which may obstruct, delay or hinder, or may become the cause of obstruction, delay or hindrance to the prevention, suppression or extinguishment of fire.
102A.2  Authority to Enforce. Subject to other provisions of law, for administration, enforcement, actions, proceedings, abatement, violations and penalties in structures subject to State Housing Law, refer to Health and Safety Code Sections 17910 through 17995.5 and California Code of Regulations, Title 25, Division 1, Chapter 1, Subchapter 1.
102A.2.1  Mobilehome parks and special occupancy parks. Subject to other provisions of law, for administrative, enforcement, actions, proceedings, abatement, inspections and penalties applicable to the Mobilehome Parks Act, refer to California Health and Safety Code, commencing with Section 18200 and California Code of Regulations, Title 25, Division 1, Chapter 2.
102A.2.2  Employee housing. Subject to other provisions of law, for administrative, enforcement, actions, proceedings, violations and penalties applicable to the Employee Housing Act, refer to Safety Code, Sections 17000 through 17062.5 and California Code of Regulations, Title 25, Division 1, Chapter 1, Subchapter 3.
102A.3  Inspections and Complaints. The Building Official is hereby authorized to inspect or cause the inspection of any building, structure or property for the purpose of determining whether or not it is unsafe in any of the following circumstances:
	1.	Whenever the Building Official, with reasonable discretion, determines that such inspection is necessary or desirable.
	2.	Whenever any person files with the Building Official a complaint from which there is, in the Building Official's opinion, probable cause to believe that the building, structure or property or any portion thereof, is unsafe.
	3.	Whenever an agency or department of the City and County of San Francisco transmits to the Building Official a written report from which there is, in the opinion of the Building Official, probable cause to believe that the building, structure or property, or any portion thereof, is unsafe.
	Upon the completion of any such inspection and the finding by the Building Official of any condition which renders the building, structure or property unsafe, the Building Official shall, within 15 days thereafter, serve a written notice of violation upon the building owner which shall contain specific allegations, setting forth each condition the Building Official has found which renders the building, structure or property unsafe. The Building Official shall, within three days of mailing of such notice of violation, post a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or upon such building, structure or property and make available a copy of the notice of violation to each tenant thereof. Such notice shall also set forth the penalties for violation prescribed in Section 103A of this code. In addition to the civil penalties prescribed in Section 103A, the Department's cost of preparation for and appearance at the hearing required by Section 102A.4, and all prior and subsequent attendant and administrative costs, shall be assessed upon the property owner monthly, after failure to comply with a written notice of violation that has been served upon the property owner. Said violations will not be deemed legally abated until the property owner makes full payment of the assessment of costs to the Department of Building Inspection. See Section 110A, Table 1A-D – Standard Hourly Rates and Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – for the applicable rate. Failure to pay the assessment of costs shall result in tax lien proceedings against the property per Section 102A.18.
	If the unsafe conditions observed on the property have not been corrected within the time period provided, the matter shall be set for hearing within 60 days from the compliance date specified on the notice of violation, if not substantial progress in abating the Code violations has commenced. 
102A.4  Notice of Hearing.
102A.4.1  General. Notice of hearing shall be given upon a form prescribed by the Building Official. It shall set forth the street address sufficient for identification of the property or premises upon which the building or structure is located. It shall contain or be attached to a copy of the notice of violation which includes a list of code violations. It shall state the date, hour and place of the hearing and shall order all interested parties who desire to be heard in the matter to appear before the Building Official to show cause why the property, building or structure, or portion thereof, should not be ordered repaired, altered, vacated and repaired or altered, or vacated and demolished.
	One copy of the notice of hearing and notice of violation, including the list of code violations, shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the building or property. The notice shall also include a conspicuous warning which sets forth the penalties for violation prescribed in Section 103A of this code.
	One copy of the notice of hearing and notice of violation, including the list of code violations, shall be served upon each of the following:
	1.	The person, if any, in real or apparent charge and control of the premises involved.
	2.	The owner of record.
	3.	The holder of any mortgage, deed of trust, lien or encumbrance of record.
	4.	The owner or holder of any lease of record.
	5.	The record holder of any other estate or interest in the building, structure or property, or the land upon which it is located.
102A.4.2  Method of service. The notice of hearing shall be served upon all persons entitled thereto, either personally or by certified or registered mail. Service by certified or registered mail shall be effective on the date of mailing if the certified or registered letter is mailed, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to each such person as their address appears on the last annual tax roll of the county or at the address to which the most recent real property tax bill for said building, structure or property was mailed by the Tax Collector. If no such address appears on the annual tax roll of the county or the records of the Tax Collector, then a copy of the notice shall be addressed to such person at the address of the building, structure or property involved in the proceedings. The failure of any owner or other person to receive such notice shall not affect in any manner the validity of any proceedings taken hereunder.
102A.4.3  Proof of service. The person serving notice as provided herein shall file an affidavit or declaration thereof under penalty of perjury, certifying to the time and manner in which such notice was given. Such person shall also file therewith any receipt card of such notice by certified or registered mail. The notice shall be posted and served at least 10 days prior to the date set for the hearing.
102A.5  Hearing. The public hearing shall be held at the time and place designated in the notice of hearing. For good cause shown, a hearing may be continued by the Building Official, except that any such continuance shall not exceed 30 days and there shall be only one such continuance allowed. Subject to procedures prescribed by the Building Official for the orderly conduct of the hearing, all persons having an interest in the building, structure or property or having knowledge of facts material to the allegations of the notice of violation including the list of code violations, may present evidence for consideration by the Building Official.
	The Building Official may designate a deputy who may act in place of the Building Official as the hearing officer. The deputy shall have the same authority as the Building Official to hear and decide the case and to make any order hereinafter provided for.
102A.6  Decision. The Building Official, after a full and fair consideration of the evidence and testimony received at the hearing, shall render within 30 days following the conclusion of such hearing, a decision in writing either dismissing the proceedings, or, if finding that the building, structure or property, or portion thereof, is unsafe, ordering that it be repaired, altered, vacated and altered or repaired, or vacated and demolished.
102A.7  Contents of Order. The order shall contain a statement of the particulars which render the building, structure, or property unsafe and shall contain a statement of work required to be done and the time requirements for the execution of the order.
102A.7.1  Address. The order shall set forth the street address of the building or structure, sufficient for identification.
102A.7.2  Time. The order shall specify the time within which the premises or portion thereof shall be vacated, if ordered. The order shall further specify a reasonable time, not to exceed 360 days from permit issuance, within which the work shall be completed.
102A.7.3  Extension for completion. The time for completion may be extended by the Building Official for good cause shown, except that such extension shall not exceed 360 days. Such extension shall be in writing upon the request of the owner and shall be limited to the minimum time necessary for completion. Only one such extension may be allowed.
102A.8  Posting and Service of Order. A copy of the order shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the building, structure or property and shall be served in the manner above prescribed in the case of the notice of hearing, upon all persons to whom the notice of hearing is required to be served, and a copy shall be recorded in the Assessor-Recorder's Office.
102A.9  Compliance, Rescinding Order. When the property, building or structure or portion thereof that was determined to be unsafe, has been found to comply with requirements of the Building Official as to rehabilitation, alteration, repair or demolition, the Building Official shall issue and record in the Assessor-Recorder's Office an order rescinding the original order.
102A.10  Appeal of Order. Any person may appeal from an order of the Building Official made pursuant to the provisions of Section 102A.7 and shall, at the hearing provided for in Section 102A.5 and in said order, be apprised of the right of appeal to the Abatement Appeals Board, provided that the appeal is made in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Abatement Appeals Board within 15 days after such order is posted and served. The 15-day limitation shall not apply when any type of a moratorium authorized in this section is sought. Where construction materials, methods, types of construction, or compliance with the time limits set forth in Table No. 16B-A are the bases, in whole or in part, of the Building Official's finding that an unreinforced masonry building, or portion thereof, is unsafe, the Abatement Appeals Board shall refer these matters to the Board of Examiners established in Section 105A.1 of this code. Where construction materials, methods, and types of construction are the bases, in whole or in part, of the Building Official's finding that the building, or structure, or portion thereof, is unsafe, the Abatement Appeals Board shall refer these matters to the Board of Examiners for its examination and determination with respect to such materials, methods, and types of construction.
	The Board of Examiners shall approve or disapprove such materials, methods, and types of construction, and may attach conditions to its approval, and shall forward a copy of its report to the Abatement Appeals Board. The Abatement Appeals Board shall include in its decision the findings of the Board of Examiners.
102A.11  Violation – Penalties for Disregarding Order.
102A.11.1  Failure to comply. The owner of any building, structure, or property or portion thereof determined by the Building Official to be unsafe who has failed to comply with any order shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as set forth in Section 103A.
102A.11.2  Failure to vacate. The occupant or lessee in possession who fails to comply with the order to vacate said building or portion thereof in accordance with any order given as provided for hereinabove shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as set forth in Section 103A.
102A.11.3  Removal of notice. Any person who removes any notice or order posted as required in this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as set forth in Section 103A.
102A.12  Costs of Abatement by the City and County of San Francisco. Whenever the Building Official, pursuant to authority conferred by this code, causes a building, structure, or property, or portion thereof, to be barricaded, secured, repaired or altered, demolished, or have other actions taken by the Department or its contractor to remedy an unsafe condition, the cost thereof shall be paid from the Repair and Demolition Fund and assessed against said property.
102A.13  Repair and Demolition Fund. A special revolving fund, to be known as the Repair and Demolition Fund, may be used for the purpose of defraying the costs and expenses (including Department administrative costs) which may be incurred by the Building Official in carrying out the actions described in Section 102A.12.
	The Board of Supervisors may, by transfer or by appropriation, establish or increase the special revolving fund with such sums as it may deem necessary in order to expedite the performance of the work of securing, repairing, altering or demolition. The Repair and Demolition Fund shall be replenished with all funds collected under the proceedings hereinafter provided for, either upon voluntary payments or as the result of the sale of the property after delinquency, or otherwise. Balances remaining in the Repair and Demolition Fund at the close of any fiscal year shall be carried forward in such fund.
102A.14  Failure to Comply with Order. Whenever an order to repair, alter, vacate and alter or repair, or vacate and demolish any building, structure or property, or portion thereof, has not been complied with within the time set by the Building Official, or within such additional time as the Building Official may for good cause extend, or within the time fixed by the Abatement Appeals Board, the Building Official shall have the power, in addition to any other remedy provided herein or by law or any other ordinance, to:
	1.	Cause the building, structure, property, or portion thereof, to be vacated, barricaded, or otherwise secured against use or occupancy pending the correction of all conditions ordered to be corrected, or pending demolition; or
	2.	Cause the building, structure, property, or portion thereof, to be dismantled or demolished and the site cleared by such means as the Building Official shall deem advisable; or
	3.	Cause the building, structure, property, or portion thereof, to be repaired or altered, so as to render it safe and in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances, by such means as the Building Official shall deem advisable.
	Any work done pursuant to the authority herein shall be performed in accordance with the limitations as to repair expenditure as contained in Section 102A.16 and with the established practices applicable to the Department.
102A.15  Forfeiture of Owner's Right to Do Work. Whenever, pursuant to Section 102A.14, the Building Official intends to cause to be done any of the work described therein, the Building Official shall provide notice in the manner set forth in Section 102A.4, of the Building Official's intention to do such work, and shall specify a date certain upon which the Building Official shall solicit bids to accomplish the necessary work, which shall be not sooner than 10 days from the date such notice is given. From and after said date certain the owner and every other person having charge or control over said building, structure or property shall be deemed to have forfeited all right to do such work and is thereafter prohibited from doing any such work except as the Building Official may allow.
102A.16  Serious and Imminent Hazards – Emergency Orders. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever, in the judgment of the Building Official, it appears from an inspection or notice of violation that there exists in, on, or near any building, structure, property, or portion thereof, any condition constituting an imminent and substantial hazard to the life, health or safety of the occupants or other persons, or to such building, structure, or property requiring prompt action to correct said condition, the Building Official shall have the power to issue an order in writing detailing the serious and imminent hazard conditions and requiring:
	1.	That the building, structure, property, or portion thereof, be vacated and thereafter be kept vacant until the Building Official gives written permission that the same may be reoccupied, without giving the notice and holding the hearing prescribed in Sections 102A.4 through 102A.6, whenever, by reason of serious and imminent danger, prompt vacating of the premises, building, structure or property, or a portion thereof, appears necessary in the judgment of the Building Official;
	2.	That the building, structure, property, or a portion thereof, be barricaded, boarded up, or otherwise secured against entry, occupancy or use by all persons, except as permitted by said order;
	3.	That the building, structure, property, or a portion thereof, be demolished or that serious and imminent hazard conditions be repaired, altered, corrected or eliminated in accordance with the particulars set forth in the order.
	The order shall contain time frames required for compliance with the order and shall set forth the street address of the building or structure and a description of the building, structure, or property sufficient for identification.
	In such cases of serious and imminent hazard, the order may be issued by the Building Official without giving the notice and holding the hearing specified in Sections 102A.4 through 102A.6. A copy of said order shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the building, structure, or property, a copy shall be served in the manner prescribed in Section 102A.4, and a copy shall be recorded in the Assessor-Recorder's Office.
	The Building Official shall have the further power under this section to cause or compel the work required under the order to be undertaken by such means as the Building Official may deem advisable if the owner and all other persons having an interest in the building, structure, or property have failed, for a period of not more than 48 hours after the posting and service of the order, to comply with the order.
	Whenever the Building Official orders that repairs or alterations be made pursuant to this Section, the authority of the Building Official to repair or alter, or cause repairs or alterations to be made to comply with the order, shall be limited to repairs or alterations whose cost does not exceed 50 percent of the value, as defined by the Assessor, of the building, structure, property, or portion thereof.
102A.17  Assessment of Costs. The Building Official shall take action to have the costs of all work done or caused to be done pursuant to the provisions of Section 102A.14 or Section 102A.16 assessed against the parcel or parcels of land upon which said building, structure, property or portion thereof is situated. Such costs shall include, in addition to the cost of barricading, securing, repairing, or demolishing the building and the clearing of the site, the cost to the City and County of San Francisco of administration and supervision of such work. See Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – for applicable rates.
102A.18  Report of Costs, Notice of Hearing on Confirmation.
102A.18.1  Preparation of delinquency report. If any penalty or assessment imposed pursuant to Section 102A is not received within the required time period, the Building Official shall initiate proceedings to make the penalty or assessment, plus accrued interest, a special assessment lien against the real property which is the subject of the penalty or assessment. The Building Official shall prepare a delinquency report for the Board of Supervisors. For each delinquent account, the report shall contain the owner's name, the amount due, including interest, and a description of the real property. The report shall also indicate which of the delinquent accounts should be exempted from the lien procedure because of the small amounts involved, or because another debt collection procedure is more appropriate. The descriptions of the parcels shall be those used for the same parcels on the Recorder/Assessor's Office records for the current year.
102A.18.2  Notice. Five days prior to forwarding the delinquency report to the Board of Supervisors, the Building Official shall serve copies of the report in the manner prescribed in Section 102A.4 and shall post the report at the subject properties. Upon receipt of the report, the Board of Supervisors shall fix a time, date and place for hearing the report and any protests or objections thereto, and shall mail notice of the hearing not less than ten days prior to the date of hearing to each owner of real property described in the report.
102A.19  Hearing and Confirmation of Report for Special Assessment of Costs.
102A.19.1  Hearing and confirmation. The Board of Supervisors shall hold a hearing on the report along with protests or objections by the representatives of the real property liable to be assessed for such delinquent accounts. The Board of Supervisors may make such revisions, corrections, or modifications of the report as it may deem just, after which, by motion or resolution, the report shall be confirmed. The Board of Supervisor's decision on the report and on all protests or objections thereto shall be final and conclusive and shall constitute confirmation of the report; provided, however, that any delinquent account may be removed from the report by payment in full at any time prior to confirmation of the report. The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors shall cause the confirmed report to be verified in form sufficient to meet recording requirements.
102A.19.2  Collection of assessment. Upon confirmation of the report by the Board of Supervisors, the delinquent charges contained therein shall constitute a special assessment against the property identified in the report. Each such assessment shall be subordinate to all existing special liens previously imposed upon such property and shall be paramount to all other liens except those for State, County and municipal taxes with which it shall be in parity. The lien shall continue until the assessment and all interest due and payable thereon are paid. All laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of municipal taxes shall be applicable to said special assessment.
102A.19.3  Recordation charges. The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors shall cause the confirmed and verified report to be recorded in the Assessor- Recorder's Office within 10 days of its confirmation. The special assessment lien on each parcel or property described in said report shall include additional charges for administrative expenses. See Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – for Lien Recordation charges.
102A.19.4  Filing with Controller and Tax Collector; distribution of proceeds. After the report is recorded, the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors shall file a certified copy with the Controller and Tax Collector, whereupon it shall be the duty of said officers to add the amount of said special assessment to the next regular bill for taxes levied against said parcel or parcels, and thereafter said amount shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary taxes are collected for the City and County of San Francisco, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedures for foreclosure and sale in case of delinquency as is provided for property taxes.
102A.19.5  Release of lien, recording fee. Upon payment to the Tax Collector of the special assessment, the Tax Collector shall cause a release lien to be recorded with the Assessor-Recorder's Office, and from the sum collected pursuant to Section 102A.19.3 above, shall pay to the Assessor- Recorder's Office the required recording fee.
102A.20  Continuance of Gas and Electricity. In the event that electricity or gas service to a building, structure, property, or portion thereof is about to be discontinued by the utility company for nonpayment of bills, the Building Official, through the issuance of an Emergency Order, may order that the utility company continue said service to protect the life, health and safety of the occupants. Said order shall be issued pursuant to the provisions of Section 102A.16 of this code and shall remain in force for six months, unless otherwise specified by the Building Official.
	The funds for the continuance of said services shall be provided from the Repair and Demolition Fund. Said costs and administrative costs incurred by the City and County of San Francisco shall be assessed against the parcel or parcels of land upon which said building, structure or property is situated. See Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – for applicable rate.
	If payment is not received from the property owner within the required time period, a Report of Costs pursuant to Section 102A.18 shall be prepared for all such costs. Submittal, confirmation, recordation and collection of the special assessment shall follow the procedures provided in Section 102A.19.
	The provisions of Section 102A.20 shall only apply to buildings, structures, property, or portions thereof for which the owner, and not the tenant, is responsible for payment of said utility bills.
SECTION 103A – VIOLATIONS
	It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure, property, or portions thereof or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of this code.
	Any person, the owner or the owner's authorized agent, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or resists or opposes the execution of any of the provisions of this code, shall be liable for a civil penalty, not to exceed $500 for each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, which penalty shall be assessed and recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the people of the City and County of San Francisco by the City Attorney in any court of competent jurisdiction. Any penalty assessed and recovered in an action brought pursuant to this paragraph shall be paid to the City Treasurer and credited to the Department's Special Fund.
	Any person, the owner or the owner's authorized agent, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists or opposes the execution of any of the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, or by imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, unless otherwise provided in this code, and shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day such violation, disobedience, omission, neglect or refusal shall continue. Any person who shall do any work in violation of any of the provisions of this code, and any person having charge of such work who shall permit it to be done, shall be liable to the penalty provided.
	It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the posting of any notice provided for in this code, or to tear down or mutilate any such notice posted by the Department.
103A.1  Pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 13112, any person who violates any order, rule or regulation of the state fire marshal is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 or more than $500.00, or by imprisonment for not less than six months, or by both. A person is guilty of a separate offense each day during which he or she commits, continues or permits a violation of any provision of, or any order, rule or regulation of, the state fire marshal as contained in this code.
	Any inspection authority who, in the exercise of his or her authority as a deputy state fire marshal, causes any legal complaints to be filed or any arrest to be made shall notify the state fire marshal immediately following such action.
103A.2  Actions and Proceedings. Subject to other provisions of law, California Code of Regulations, Title 25, Division 1, Chapter 1 commencing with Section 1 and Health and Safety Code, Sections 17980 through 17995.5 address punishments, penalties and fines for violations of building standards in structures subject to the State Housing Law.
103A.2.1  Actions and proceedings. Subject to other provisions of law, California Code of Regulations, Title 25, Division 1, Chapter 2 commencing with Section 1000 and Health and Safety Code, Section 18700 addresses punishments, penalties and fines for violations of building standards subject to the Mobilehome Parks Act.
103A.2.2  Actions and proceedings. Subject to other provisions of law, California Code of Regulations, Title 25, Division 1, Chapter 1 commencing with Section 600 and Health and Safety Code, Sections 17060 through 17062.5 address punishments, penalties and fines for violations of building standards subject to the Employee Housing Act.
103A.3  Restrictions of Unlawful Residential Demolition Replacement.
103A.3.1  Demolition without permit. Whenever the demolition of any building or structure containing one or more residential units takes place without the issuance of a demolition permit as required by this code, the site on which the unlawful demolition occurred shall be subject to the following restriction: For five years from the date of the unlawful demolition, no permit authorizing the construction or alteration of any building or structure for that site shall be issued, except for a permit for the construction or alteration of a building or structure with the same number of residential units, with the same proportion of residential to nonresidential units, and with the same or fewer square feet as the building or structure that was unlawfully demolished.
103A.3.2  Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
	DEMOLITION means the total tearing down or destruction of a building containing one or more residential units, or any alteration which destroys or removes, as those terms are defined by the Building Official of the Department of Building Inspection, principal portions of an existing structure containing one or more residential units.
	PRINCIPAL PORTION means that construction which determines the shape and size of the building envelope (such as the exterior walls, roof and interior bearing elements), or that construction which alters two-thirds or more of the interior elements (such as walls, partitions, floors or ceilings).
	RESIDENTIAL UNIT means any dwelling unit, as defined in this code, or any guest room, as defined in the San Francisco Housing Code, other than the following:
	1.	Any guest room in a building classified as a residential hotel pursuant to the Residential Hotel Unit Conversion and Demolition Ordinance
	2.	Any residential unit in a building where the demolition or alteration is required to comply with this code, the Housing Code or the City Planning Code.
103A.3.3  Hearing. The Building Official shall hold a hearing within a reasonable period of time after discovering that an unlawful demolition may have taken place. The Building Official shall cause notice to be given to the owners of the affected property, and to the owners and occupants of property on the same block as the affected property's site and across the street from the site for one block (that is, on lots which abut the same street as that which abuts the site to the nearest intersections on either side of the site), using the names and addresses of the owners as shown on the last assessment rolls of the City and County of San Francisco. For corner lots, notice shall be provided to the owners and occupants of property on the same block as the affected property's site and for one block along both streets which the lot abuts (that is, on lots which abut the two streets which the site abuts to the nearest intersection on either side of the site) and, in addition, to the other corner lots at the intersection where the site is located. Notice may be given either by personal service or any mail, not less than 30 days before the scheduled date of the hearing. Immediately after giving such notice, the Building Official shall cause a copy of the notice, printed on a card of not less than 8 inches by 10 inches (203.2 mm × 254 mm), to be posted in a conspicuous place on the affected property. The notice shall specify the date and nature of the hearing and that the following issues will be determined at the hearing: whether an unlawful demolition has taken place as described in Sections 103A.3.1 and 103A.3.2, and, if so, the number of residential units that existed on the site, the proportion of residential to nonresidential units that existed on the site and the total square feet of the building or structure that existed on the site. Upon determination that an unlawful demolition has taken place, the Building Official shall promptly record a notice in the official records of the Recorder of the City and County of San Francisco; the recorded notice shall state that the property is subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 103A.3.1 of this code.
	Upon determination that an unlawful demolition has taken place, the Building Official shall assess the owner all costs incurred by the City and County of San Francisco in detecting violations of this section and conducting the Building Official's hearing by sending a notice of payment due to the property owner at the address shown on the City's last assessment rolls. The notice shall list the costs incurred by the City in detecting violations of the ordinance and conducting the Building Official's hearing, advise the owner that he or she is liable for these costs and advise the owner that payment to the City is due within 60 days of the mailing date of the notice. The notice shall also advise that, if payment of the costs is not received within 30 days of the due date, a lien may be imposed on the property pursuant to the report and confirmation procedure set forth in Sections 102A.18 and 102A.19 of this code.
103A.3.4  Civil penalties. Any agent, contractor or other person acting on behalf of the owner of a building or structure containing one or more residential units who causes or permits the demolition of the building or structure with the knowledge that a demolition permit has not been issued as required by this code shall be subject to a civil penalty of $5,000. Any owner who causes or permits the demolition of his or her building or structure containing one or more residential units with the knowledge that no demolition permit has been issued as required by this code shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000.
103A.3.5  Penalties nonexclusive. The penalties set forth in this section are not exclusive, but are in addition to any other penalties set forth in this code.
103A.4  Vacant or Abandoned Buildings – Annual Registration; Registration Fee; Maintenance and Security Requirements.
103A.4.1  Definition. A building shall be defined as a vacant or abandoned if it (1) is unoccupied and unsecured; or (2) is unoccupied and secured by boarding or other similar means; or (3) is unoccupied and unsafe as defined in Section 102A of this Code; or (4) is unoccupied and has multiple code violations; or (5) has been unoccupied for over 30 days. A building which is partially unoccupied and has been cited for blight under Chapter 80 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, shall also be deemed a vacant or abandoned building that is subject to this Section.
	For purposes of this Section 103A.4. a building shall not be considered vacant or abandoned if:
	(1)	There is a valid building permit for repair, rehabilitation, or construction of a building on the parcel and the owner completes the repair, rehabilitation, or construction within one year from the date the initial permit was issued; or
	(2)	The building complies with all codes, does not contribute to blight as defined in Chapter 80 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, is ready for occupancy, and is actively being offered for sale, lease, or rent.
103A.4.2  Property owner's obligation to register a vacant or abandoned building. The owner of a building defined as vacant or abandoned under Section 103A.4.1 shall register that building with the Department 30 days after it has become vacant or abandoned on a form provided by the Department. The form shall describe the methods by which the owner has secured the property against unauthorized entry, declare any future plans for the property, state whether or not there is fire and liability insurance coverage, and provide such other information as the Department may require. A registration fee shall be paid at the time of registration and annually thereafter. See Section 110A, Table 1A-J for applicable fee.
103A.4.3  Notice. Whenever the Director has probable cause to believe, based upon an inspection, complaint, or report from another agency of the City and County of San Francisco or other governmental agency, that a building is vacant or abandoned and it has not been registered as required by this Section 103A.4, the Director shall serve the owner of record, as shown on the Assessor's Records, or authorized agent with a written notice requiring the owner to register the building with the Department as vacant or abandoned and pay the registration fee within the period of time specified in the notice, which shall be no greater than 30 days.
103A.4.4  Sign posting. The owner of record of the vacant or abandoned building is required to post a sign at the front of the building, in a conspicuous location protected from the weather, that provides the current name, address, and phone number of the owner of record and authorized agent if different from the owner. If a notice of default or foreclosure has been recorded for the property, the lender's name, address, and telephone number must also be provided. The sign shall be no smaller than 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches.
103A.4.5  Maintenance and security requirements. The following maintenance and security requirements shall apply to a vacant or abandoned building. The Director has the discretion to modify these requirements in the case of a partially vacant building, and to modify or waive some or all of these requirements in the case of a building that has been damaged by fire, a natural disaster, or other calamity.
103A.4.5.1  Maintenance of property – exterior. The property owner shall actively maintain and monitor the exterior of the building and the grounds so that they remain in continuing compliance with all applicable codes and regulations, and do not contribute to and are not likely to contribute to blight as defined in Chapter 80 of the Administrative Code. Active maintenance and monitoring shall include, but not be limited to:
	(1)	Maintenance of landscaping and plant materials in good condition;
	(2)	Regular removal of all exterior trash, debris, and graffiti;
	(3)	Maintenance of the exterior of the building in a good condition that is structurally safe and preserves the physical integrity of the structure, including but not limited to paint and finishes, foundation, roof, chimneys, flues, gutters, downspouts, scuppers, flashing, skylights, windows, exterior stairs and decks;
	(4)	Prevention of criminal activity on the premises and trespass by unauthorized persons; and
	(5)	Turning off all utilities that are not necessary for the upkeep and maintenance of the building.
103A.4.5.2  Maintenance of property – interior. The property owner shall preserve the interior of the building from damage by the elements or plumbing leaks, and keep it free from accumulation of garbage and other debris, and from infestation by rodents, insects, or other pests.
103A.4.5.3  Security. The building shall be secured against unauthorized entry. The methods of security shall be as approved by the Director, who shall take into consideration whether the property has been cited for nuisance activities or criminal conduct by another department of the City and County of San Francisco or other government agency.
103A.4.6  Insurance. The owner of record shall maintain whatever fire and liability insurance coverage the Director determines is necessary. Any insurance policy shall require notice to the Department in the event of cancellation of insurance or a reduction in coverage.
103A.4.7  Violation a public nuisance; enforcement. A property in violation of the provisions of this section is deemed to be a public nuisance and subject to enforcement by the Department and penalties under Section 102A and 103A of this Code or under other applicable sections of the San Francisco Municipal Code.
SECTION 104A – ORGANIZATION AND ENFORCEMENT
104A.1  Enforcement Agency. The Department of Building Inspection shall be the administering and enforcing agency under this code.
104A.2  Powers and Duties of Building Official.
104A.2.1  General. The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of this code. For such purposes, the Building Official shall have the powers of a law enforcement officer.
	Pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 13108, upon the written request of the chief fire official of any city, county or fire-protection district, the State Fire Marshal may authorize such chief fire official and his or her authorized representatives, in their geographical area of responsibility, to make fire- prevention inspections of state-owned or state- occupied buildings, other than state institutions, for the purpose of enforcing the regulations relating to fire and panic safety adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to this section and building standards relating to fire and panic safety published in the California Building Standards Code. Authorization from the State Fire Marshal shall be limited to those fire departments or fire districts which maintain a fire-prevention bureau staffed by paid personnel.
	Pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 13108, any requirement or order made by any chief fire official who is authorized by the State Fire Marshal to make fire-prevention inspections of state-owned or state occupied buildings, other than state institutions, may be appealed to the State Fire Marshal. The State Fire Marshal shall, upon receiving an appeal and subject to the provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 18945) of Part 2, 5 of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code, determine if the requirement or order made is reasonably consistent with the fire and panic safety regulations adopted by the Office of the State Fire Marshal and building standards relating to fire and panic safety published in the California Building Code.
	The Building Official shall have the power to render interpretations of this code and to adopt and enforce rules and supplemental regulations to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformance with the intent and purpose of this code. Such rules and regulations, commonly referred to as Code Rulings and Administrative Bulletins supplemental to this code shall not take effect until approved by the Building Inspection Commission and signed by the Building Official except in unusual circumstances where the Building Official has determined that there is an immediate need to protect the public health and safety. When the Building Official finds that such circumstances exist, the Building Official may order immediate enforcement of a particular rule or regulation. The Building Official shall arrange for a subscription service to such rules and regulations, the entire cost of which is to be borne by the subscribers.
	NOTE: "Code Rulings" and "Administrative Bulletins" may be found in the Department's Rules and Regulations printed at the back of this code.
104A.2.2  Deputies. In accordance with prescribed procedures and with the approval of the appointing authority, the building official may appoint such number of technical officers and inspectors and other employees as shall be authorized from time to time. The building official may deputize such inspectors or employees as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the code enforcement agency.
104A.2.3  Right of entry. When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code or other codes or ordinances, or when the Building Official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building or upon a premises a condition that is contrary to or in violation of this code or other codes or ordinances that makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Building Official may enter the building or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this code or other codes or ordinances, provided that if such building or premises be occupied that credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested. If such building or premises be unoccupied, the Building Official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Building Official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
104A.2.4  Stop orders. Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, or other pertinent laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code, the building official may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the building official to proceed with the work.
104A.2.5  Occupancy violations. Whenever any building, structure, property or portion thereof regulated by this code is being used contrary to the provisions of this code or the code in effect at the time the use was commenced, the Building Official may order such use discontinued and the building, structure, property or portion thereof, vacated by notice served on any person involved in said use or causing such use to be continued. Such person shall discontinue the use within the time prescribed by the Building Official after receipt of such notice to make the building, structure, property or portion thereof, comply with the requirements of this code; provided, however, that in the event of an unsafe building, structure or property the provisions of Section 102A shall apply.
104A.2.6  Liability. The Building Official charged with the enforcement of this code, acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance shall not thereby be rendered personally liable for damages that may accrue to persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of such duties. A suit brought against the building official or employee because of such act or omission performed by the building official or employee in the enforcement of any provision of such codes or other pertinent laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code or enforced by the code enforcement agency shall be defended by this jurisdiction until final termination of such proceedings, and any judgment resulting therefrom shall be assumed by this jurisdiction.
	This code shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person owning, operating or controlling any building or structure for any damages to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall the code enforcement agency or its parent jurisdiction be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the inspections authorized by this code or any permits or certificates issued under this code.
104A.2.7  Modifications. When there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the building official may grant modifications for individual cases. The building official shall first find that a special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical and that the modifications are in conformance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modifications does not lessen any fire-protection requirements or any degree of structural integrity. The details of any action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the code enforcement agency.
104A.2.7.1  Local equivalencies. Due to unique topographical conditions in the City and County of San Francisco, including but not limited to the City's built environment and historic pattern of development, equivalencies to certain code requirements have been developed by the Department and are approved on an individual basis if specific conditions are met. Wherever in this code a reference to Local Equivalency is made, details of the equivalency to the specific code requirement may be found in the Department's Rules and Regulations printed at the back of this code.
104A.2.8  Alternate materials, design, and methods of construction. The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the use of any material, alternate design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided any alternate has been approved and its use authorized by the building official.
	The building official may approve any such alternate, provided the building official finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the provisions of this code and that the material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code in suitability, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, safety and sanitation.
	The building official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claims that may be made regarding its use. The details of any action granting approval of an alternate shall be recorded and entered in the files of the code enforcement agency.
104A.2.8.1  Alternate for materials, design, tests and methods of construction. Subject to other provisions of law, alterations, repairs, replacements, occupancy, use and maintenance provisions, and moved buildings are referenced in the State Housing Law, Health and Safety Code, Sections 17912, 17920.3, 17922 (c), 17922.3, 17958.8 and 17958.9 and California Code of Regulations, Title 25, Chapter 1 commencing with Section 1. Health and Safety Code Sections 17958.8 and 17958.9 are repeated here to provide clarity and read as follows:
	Section 17958.8.  Local ordinances or regulations governing alterations and repair of existing buildings shall permit the replacement, retention, and extension of original materials and the use of original methods of construction for any building or accessory structure subject to this part, including a hotel, lodging house, motel, apartment house, or dwelling, or portions thereof, as long as the portion of the building and structure subject to the replacement, retention, or extension of original materials and the use of original methods of construction complies with the building code provisions governing that portion of the building or accessory structure at the time of construction, and the other rules and regulations of the department or alternative local standards governing that portion at the time of its construction and adopted pursuant to Section 13143.2 and the building or accessory structure does not become or continue to be a substandard building.
	Section 17958.9.  Local ordinances or regulations governing the moving of apartment houses and dwellings shall, after July 1, 1978, permit the retention of existing materials and methods of construction so long as the apartment house or dwelling complies with the building standards for foundation applicable to new construction, and does not become or continue to be a substandard building.
104A.2.8.2  Reserved.
104A.2.8.3  Approval and evaluation of materials or systems, methods and types of construction, fabricators, and testing or plan review agencies. General. This section is applicable to evaluations conducted and to approvals granted by the Department, for use in San Francisco, for alternate materials not covered in this code; for plant fabrications of building components which normally require special inspection; for testing or plan review agencies; for evaluation of materials, product methods and types of construction.
	Any approval shall be void if, after approval, the design or nature of the device or material, the method of construction, the quality control program, or the capabilities of the agency, are found to deviate in any way from that represented to the Department or the conditions of approval, without first obtaining written authorization from the Building Official.
	Any approval may be suspended or revoked if the Building Official finds the approved device or material, method of construction, or quality control program does not meet the requirements of Sections 104A.2.8 or 1701 to such an extent that the approval should not have been granted. See Section 110A, Table 1A-J – Product Approvals – for applicable fees. The fees specified are application fees and are not refundable regardless of whether the action taken is an approval or a denial or whether a subsequent request for hearing by the Board of Examiners is filed, except for the case where an application was filed at the request or on the advice of the Department for situations which subsequently are determined to not require an approval.
	Each approval shall become null and void unless renewed within the specified period.
104A.2.9  Tests. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with any of the provisions of this code or evidence that any material or construction does not conform to the requirements of this code, the building official may require tests as proof of compliance to be made at no expense to this jurisdiction
	Test methods shall be as specified by this code or by other recognized test standards. If there are no recognized and accepted test methods for the proposed alternate, the building official shall determine test procedures.
	All tests shall be made by an approved agency. Reports of such tests shall be retained by the building official for the period required for the retention of public records.
104A.2.10  Cooperation of other officials and officers. The building official may request, and shall receive, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of this jurisdiction so far as is required in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance.
104A.2.11  Code revisions. The Building Official shall transmit to the Building Inspection Commission, at intervals not exceeding three years, recommendations for changes to this code, based on studies of the following:
	1.	Requests of the Board of Examiners for modifications from the code, and for approvals of alternate materials, alternate designs and methods of construction.
	2.	Code changes recommended by the Board of Examiners.
	3.	Code changes recommended by the Code Advisory Committee or other bodies subordinate to the Building Inspection Commission.
	4.	Results obtained and problems encountered in legal actions taken to correct code violations.
	5.	Changes or improvements in materials, methods of construction or design, and changes proposed by interested persons.
	6.	Investigations of fire and structural damage to buildings, and of determination of unsatisfactory building performance.
	7.	Periodic changes to the California Building Code and other State regulations which may affect this code.
	8.	Administrative Bulletins and Code Rulings currently in effect.
	9.	Violations of the code found on inspections or investigations.
104A.3  Service of Notices.
104A.3.1  Notices sent. Whenever a notice is required to be given under this code, unless different provisions are otherwise specifically made, such notice may be given either by personal delivery to the person to be notified or by deposit in the United States mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the person to be notified at such person's last known business or residence address. Service by mail shall be deemed to be have been completed at the time of deposit in the United States mail.
104A.3.2  Proof of notice. Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any officer or employee of the City and County of San Francisco or by affidavit of any person over the age of eighteen years, which shows service in conformity with the San Francisco Municipal Code or other provisions or law applicable to the subject matter concerned.
104A.4  Code Enforcement and Rehabilitation Fund.
104A.4.1  Establishment. There is hereby established in the Treasury of the City and County of San Francisco a special fund to be known and designated as the Code Enforcement and Rehabilitation Fund, into which shall be deposited all funds allocated by the State Controller from the Local Agency Code Enforcement and Rehabilitation Fund.
104A.4.2  Use of funds. The Code Enforcement and Rehabilitation Fund shall be used exclusively to defray costs incurred in the enforcement of local code provisions mandated by State law.
104A.5  Building Inspection Fund. All fees collected pursuant to this code shall be deposited into the Building Inspection Fund established by the City Controller pursuant to Section 10.117-78 of the San Francisco Administrative Code. This fund shall be used by the Department, subject to the approval of the Building Inspection Commission, to defray costs incurred for, but not limited to, personnel, supplies, and equipment used in evaluating the applications, maintaining files and records, and for disseminating information, reviewing plans and making inspections to determine compliance with the conditions of approvals. Any charges established by the Building Official or the Building Inspection Commission for copies of approvals, publications or other Department records shall be deposited into this fund.
104A.6  Multiple Languages in Notices.
104A.6.1  Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
	DEDICATED TELEPHONE NUMBER means a telephone number for a recorded message in a language of limited English proficient residents. The recorded message shall advise callers as to what information they should leave on the message machine so that the Department may return the call with information about the notice in the requested language.
	LANGUAGE OF LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENT RESIDENTS means each of the two languages other than English spoken most commonly by San Francisco residents of English proficiency as determined by the Planning Department based on its annual review of United States census and other data as required by San Francisco Administrative Code Section 91.2(j).
104A.6.2  Applicability of multiple language requirement. The requirements of Section 104A.6.3 shall apply to the following notices:
	1.	Notices required by Section 103A.3.3 that are mailed or personally served.
	2.	Notices required by Section 106A.3.2.2.1.
	3.	Notices required by Section 106A.3.2.3.
	4.	Notices required by Section 106A.4.6, Subsection 2.
	5.	Notices required by Section 106A.4.6, Subsection 3.
	6.	Notices required by Section 3426.3.2.
	7.	Any other notices required by the Building Code to be mailed or personally served to property owners or occupants adjacent to or near a property for which Building Department development approval is sought.
104A.6.3  Multiple language statement in notices. The Building Department shall prepare a cover sheet as specified below and include it with each notice of the type listed in Section 104A.6.2 that is mailed or personally served. For posted notices listed in Section 104A.6.2, the Department shall post the cover sheet next to the posted notice. The cover sheet shall contain the following statement, printed in each language of limited English proficient residents and, to the extent available Department resources allow, such other languages that the Department determines desirable, with the name of the language in which the statement is made, the time period for a decision on the matter and the dedicated telephone number for the language of the statement inserted in the appropriate blank spaces:
	"The attached notice is provided under the Building Code. It concerns property located at the address shown on the attached notice. A hearing may occur, a right to request review may expire or a development approval may become final unless appealed within [insert days until a hearing or deadline for requesting review or appealing a decision]. To obtain information about this notice in [insert name of language] please call [insert dedicated telephone number]. Please be advised that the Building Department will require at least one business day to respond to any call. Provision of information in [insert name of language] is provided as a service by the Building Department and does not grant any additional rights or extend any time limits provided by applicable law."
	The Department shall maintain a dedicated telephone number for each language of limited English proficient residents. The Department shall place a return telephone call by the end of the following business day to each person who leaves a message concerning a neighborhood notice at a dedicated telephone number and, when the caller is reached, provide information to the caller about the notice in the language spoken by the caller.
SECTION 105A – BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
105A.1  Board of Examiners.
105A.1.1  Establishment. There is hereby created a Board of Examiners who are qualified by experience and training to pass upon matters pertaining to building design and construction. The functions of the Board of Examiners shall be:
105A.1.1.1  To determine whether specific new materials, new methods and types of construction comply with the standards of safety established by this code, and to recommend the approval or disapproval of such new materials, new methods and types of construction.
105A.1.1.2  To determine whether variances from the requirements of this code should be approved for specific cases where new materials, new methods and types of construction are not involved, and where the enforcement of compliance therewith would result in unreasonable hardship.
105A.1.1.3  To recommend to the Building Official reasonable interpretations of the provisions of this code.
105A.1.1.4  To hear appeals from any Abatement Order of the Building Official involving construction methods, assemblies or materials or where safety is involved. 
	A copy of the findings of the Board of Examiners shall be forwarded to the Abatement Appeals Board.
	Matters involving compliance with Chapters 16B and 16C and other related structural provisions of this code regulating the strengthening of unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings shall be heard by the Board of Examiners as provided in Section 105A.1.
105A.1.2  Definition. The term "standard of safety," as used in this section, shall mean the general degree of safety conforming to the provisions of this code as required to safeguard life or limb, health and public welfare.
105A.1.3  Intent. It is the intent of this section that new materials, new methods and types of construction which do not comply with the standards of safety established by this code shall in no event be approved; but that the requirements of this code, other than those involving such standards of safety, may be modified or waived under the circumstances set forth in this section.
105A.1.4  Membership. The Board of Examiners shall consist of 13 members, which shall include one plumbing member and one electrical member, who shall serve only when cases related to plumbing or electrical code issues are being considered, and one high-rise sprinkler member who shall serve only when cases related to high-rise sprinkler issues are being considered, and three seismic improvement members who shall serve only when cases related to Chapter 34B seismic retrofit issues are being considered. All members are to be appointed by the Building Inspection Commission and shall serve at the Building Inspection Commission's pleasure for a three-year term or until a successor is appointed. The present members shall be continued in office until the expiration of their terms.
	In the event a vacancy occurs during the term of office of any member of the Board of Examiners, a new appointment shall be made in a manner similar to that described herein for new members.
	The membership shall consist of:
	1.	A registered structural engineer.
	2.	A registered mechanical engineer.
	3.	A registered electrical engineer.
	4.	A registered fire protection engineer.
	5.	A licensed general contractor.
	6.	A licensed architect.
	7.	A building trades representative.
	8.	As the plumbing member, a licensed plumbing contractor.
	9.	As the electrical member, a licensed electrical contractor.
	10.	As a high-rise sprinkler member, one building owner representative.
	11.	As a Seismic Improvement member, one tenant also a licensed or registered architect, civil or structural engineer.
	12.	As a Seismic Improvement member, one property owner also a licensed or registered architect, civil or structural engineer.
	13.	As a Seismic Improvement member, one registered structural engineer specializing in seismic improvement.
	The terms "registered" and "licensed" shall be understood to mean by the State of California. The Building Inspection Commission shall make such appointments after giving careful consideration to nominations made by technical associations and general contractor organizations including the Consulting Engineers Association of California, the Structural Engineers Association of Northern California, the San Francisco District of the Associated General Contractors of California, the Plumbing and Mechanical Cooling Contractors of San Francisco, the San Francisco Electrical Contractors Association, the San Francisco Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, and the San Francisco Building Trades Council. Each member of the Board of Examiners shall receive compensation of $125 per meeting attended.
	The following shall constitute ex officio members of the Board of Examiners, without vote and without compensation: The Building Official, who shall act as Secretary of the Board of Examiners, and the Fire Marshal.
	In the event a member cannot attend meetings of the Board of Examiners for a period of three or more consecutive meetings due to illness, work away from San Francisco, or any other valid reason, the Building Inspection Commission may appoint an alternate member representing the same profession or trade as the absent member and meeting the same registration or licensing requirements as the absent member. The appointment of such alternate need not require solicitation of nominees from the respective organizations. The alternate shall serve on the Board of Examiners until the return of the absent member or until the expiration of the absent member's term, whichever comes first. The compensation indicated in section 4 above shall be paid the alternate member for each meetings attended. The alternate member shall, during the time of service on the Board of Examiners, have all the rights, duties, and privileges of a duly appointed member of the Board of Examiners.
105A.1.5  Board of Examiners's authority with respect to applications for approval of materials, methods and types of construction. Where application has been made to the Building Official to approve new materials, new methods and types of construction which the applicant believes meet the standards of safety set by this code, and where the approval of such application has been denied by the Building Official, the Board of Examiners shall have authority, at the request of the applicant, to determine whether such materials, methods and types of construction comply therewith.
105A.1.5.1  The Board of Examiners shall adopt rules and specifications for examining and testing proposed materials and methods of construction. A copy of such rules and specifications shall be furnished to the applicant.
105A.1.5.2  The applicant shall cause to be made, at the applicant's expense, all reasonable tests and examinations required by the Board of Examiners to substantiate the applicant's claims that any proposed new materials, new methods and types of construction comply with the standards of safety established by this code.
105A.1.5.3  The Board of Examiners shall have power to call upon such experts as it deems necessary to consider and report upon the technical matters concerning such application. The engagement of the services of such experts shall be with the consent of and at the expense of the applicant, and the Board of Examiners shall have power to require security for the payment of such expense. Such expense shall be in addition to the required filing fees as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments. Any official or employee of the City and County of San Francisco called upon by the Board of Examiners shall serve without compensation beyond their normal salary.
105A.1.5.4  The Board of Examiners shall certify the results of examinations and tests, together with its recommendation on the application, to the Building Official. If the Board of Examiners recommends approval, the Building Official shall thereupon approve the materials or methods of construction. The Board of Examiners shall have power to attach such conditions to its recommendations as it deems necessary in the interest of public safety, and the Building Official's approval shall be granted subject to such conditions.
105A.1.6  Board of Examiners' authority with respect to applications for variances from code requirements. Where new materials, new methods and types of construction are not involved, the Board of Examiners shall have authority to consider the application for a permit, the approval of which would require a variance from the provisions of this code.
	If the Board of Examiners finds that such variance will not result in a condition less safe and less desirable from the viewpoint of public welfare than would result from the enforcement of compliance with such provisions, it shall recommend to the Building Official the approval of such permit. Upon receipt of such recommendation, the Building Official shall approve such permit. The Board of Examiners may attach to such recommendations any conditions which public safety and welfare may require, and the Building Official in approving such permit shall incorporate such conditions therein.
105A.1.7  Application for consideration by Board of Examiners. All applications to the Board of Examiners shall be made in writing and shall be filed with the Secretary of the Board of Examiners. The Board of Examiners shall act upon each application without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. See Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – for applicable fee.
105A.1.8  Procedure. The Board of Examiners shall establish reasonable rules and regulations for its own procedures not inconsistent with the provisions of this code and the Charter of the City and County of San Francisco. The Board of Examiners, by a majority vote, shall choose its officers, which shall consist of the President and Vice-President.
105A.1.9  Meetings. Meetings of the Board of Examiners shall be held at the call of the Secretary of the Board of Examiners and at such times and places as the Board of Examiners may determine. All meetings of the Board of Examiners shall be public meetings.
105A.1.10  Quorum. Four members of the Board of Examiners shall constitute a quorum, and action of the Board of Examiners shall require the affirmative votes of not less than three members. No member of the Board of Examiners shall pass upon any question in which the member, or any corporation in which the member is a shareholder or holds an interest.
105A.1.11  Decisions by resolution. Every decision and recommendation of the Board of Examiners shall be by resolution filed with the Building Official. A copy shall be mailed to the applicant. A copy shall also be sent to other interested bureaus or departments charged with the enforcement of this code. The Board of Examiners shall arrange for a subscription service to its agenda and decisions, the entire cost of which shall be borne by the subscribers.
105A.1.12  Record of meetings. The Board of Examiners shall maintain a tape recording of each meeting. Upon request, these tape recordings shall be made available for duplication by independent agencies with proper security afforded as determined by the Building Official. All costs of duplication shall be borne by the party requesting duplication.
105A.2  Abatement Appeals Board.
105A.2.1  Establishment. There is hereby established an Abatement Appeals Board, consisting of the seven members of the Building Inspection Commission, to pass upon matters pertaining to housing, building and construction.
105A.2.2  Membership. Members of the Abatement Appeals Board shall be the Building Inspection Commission who are appointed and serve for the terms as prescribed by the Charter of the City and County of San Francisco. The Building Official or designee shall act as Secretary to the Abatement Appeals Board.
105A.2.3  Powers. Except for cases involving disabled access, which shall be heard by the Access Appeals Commission, the Abatement Appeals Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals from Orders of Abatement after public hearing by the Building Official of Building Inspection, and to hear appeals –regarding- the issuance of a final bill for assessment of costs imposed pursuant to Section 102A upon a showing of substantial error by the Department. Appeals for assessment of cost must be filed by the property owner in writing with the Secretary of the Abatement Appeals Board within 15 days of the mailing of the assessment of cost notice. See Section 110A, Table 1A-D-Standard Hourly Rates, and Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – for applicable fees. The Abatement Appeals Board may uphold, modify or reverse such orders, provided that the public health, safety and public welfare are secured most nearly in accordance with the intent and purpose of this code and the San Francisco Housing Code.
105A.2.4  Procedure. The Abatement Appeals Board shall establish reasonable rules and regulations for its own procedures consistent with the provision of this code and the Charter of the City and County of San Francisco. The Abatement Appeals Board, by majority vote, shall choose its officers which shall consist of the President and Vice-President.
105A.2.5  Quorum. Four members of the Abatement Appeals Board shall constitute a quorum. Any action of the Abatement Appeals Board shall require the concurrence of four members. No member of the Abatement Appeals Board shall pass upon any case in which the member, or any corporation in which the member is a shareholder, or holds an interest.
105A.2.6  Hearings. All hearings of the Abatement Appeals Board shall be public hearings. Within 10 days after the filing of an appeal, the Abatement Appeals Board shall fix the time and place for a hearing, which shall not be more than 30 days after the date of filing. The notice of the hearing of such appeal shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the property that is the subject of the appeal and shall be served upon the appellant and transmitted to the Building Official of Building Inspection at least 10 days prior to the date set for the hearing. Once an appeal is filed, the order of the Building Official shall be stayed until a decision is rendered.
	For good cause shown, one continuance of a hearing may be granted by the Abatement Appeals Board; such continuance shall not exceed 60 days.
105A.2.7  Rehearing. The Abatement Appeals Board may rehear an appeal upon which a decision has been rendered, provided a request for a rehearing has been made in writing within 10 days of the date of issuance of the decision.
105A.2.8  Findings and decisions. The Abatement Appeals Board shall issue its findings and decisions no later than 10 days after the conclusion of the hearing. Such findings and decisions shall within five days thereafter be posted in a conspicuous place upon the property that is the subject of the appeal, served on the appellant, and transmitted to the Building Official.
105A.2.8.1  Failure of appellant to appear. In the event the appellant fails to appear at the hearing or if the Abatement Appeals Board fails to issue its findings and decisions within the time set forth above, or denies the appeal, the order of the Building Official shall be immediately effective from the date the order was issued; however the time that the matter was under appeal shall not be counted toward the time set in the order for compliance.
	EXCEPTION: Except in cases of lack of quorum, failure of the Abatement Appeals Board to meet any of the time periods specified herein shall result in the Building Official's order taking effect immediately.
105A.2.8.2  Life-safety hazards. In any appeal of a decision where the Abatement Appeals Board finds that there exists in, on, or near any building, structure or property, any condition constituting a serious and imminent hazard to the life, health, or safety of any person, structure, or property, any decision of the Abatement Appeals Board modifying the order of the Building Official shall provide for immediate protection of the public, and that work to correct each such hazard commence within 30 days and be completed within 90 days after service of such decision. With respect to violations which are not found by the Abatement Appeals Board to constitute a serious and imminent hazard, any decision of the Abatement Appeals Board modifying the order of the Building Official shall provide that the work to repair such violations commence within 60 days and be completed within a reasonable time, not to exceed 18 months.
105A.2.8.3  Moratorium – financial hardship. In any case of extreme financial hardship, the Abatement Appeals Board may grant a moratorium to correct conditions which are not serious and imminent hazards. Such a moratorium shall be granted only to an owner occupant of a single- or two-family dwelling where all such serious and imminent hazards, as found by the Building Official, have been corrected. The decision of the Abatement Appeals Board in any case in which a moratorium is granted shall contain the duration of the moratorium and the conditions for its termination. A copy of the decision granting a moratorium shall be recorded in the Assessor-Recorder's Office.
105A.2.8.4  Moratorium – displacement. Notwithstanding the provisions of this code and the San Francisco Housing Code, the Abatement Appeals Board, upon the written appeal of any person, may grant a moratorium from enforcement of an order of the Building Official made pursuant to Section 102A in order to prevent displacement of low and moderate income persons from affordable housing, if the Board finds that:
	1.	The Building Official's order from which the appeal is taken was issued after April 1, 1986; and
	2.	The property is a Group R, Division 1 building as defined in this code; and
	3.	The building was constructed prior to January 1, 1956; and
	4.	The condition does not constitute a serious and imminent hazard or a life hazard as defined in Section 213 of this code; and
	5.	The condition does not violate the Fire Code or any code other than this code and the San Francisco Housing Code; and
	6.	The condition does not affect adequate egress from the building; and
	7.	The condition does not endanger the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants of the building; and
	8.	Fifty percent or more of the households living in the building are paying annual rent equal to or less than 30 percent of the annual rent of low and moderate income as determined in Section 104A.4 of the Building Code; and
	9.	The abatement of the condition will have a reasonable probability of resulting in the displacement of occupants who are of low and moderate income as defined above.
105A.2.8.5  Findings. The Board shall serve the Building Official, the property owner, and the person requesting the moratorium if other than the property owner, by sending a copy of its findings and decision by certified mail to such persons at their last known address. A copy of the findings and the decision granting a moratorium shall be recorded in the Assessor-Recorder's Office.
105A.2.8.6  Term of moratorium. The maximum term of the moratorium shall be 10 years from the date that the Board's findings and decision are served on the Building Official. At any time during the term of a moratorium under this section, any person may request that the Abatement Appeals Board extend the moratorium for one or more five-year periods by filing a written request with the Secretary of the Board. The Board shall hold a hearing on the request and shall issue separate findings and decisions regarding each request for an extension. The findings must address the nine criteria listed in this section. Any request for an extension of the moratorium shall be subject to the notice and hearing procedures of this section.
105A.2.8.7  Rescission of moratorium. At any time during the term of a moratorium, any person, including the Building Official, may request that the Abatement Appeals Board rescind the moratorium by filing a written request with the Board. The Board shall hold a hearing on the request and issue separate findings and decisions regarding each such request for a rescission. Any request for a rescission of the moratorium shall be subject to the notice and hearing procedures of this section.
105A.2.8.8  Violations listed. The moratorium shall apply only to those code violations expressly listed therein. All other violations which exist and are not so listed in the findings and decisions granting the moratorium shall be abated in accordance with Section 102A.
105A.2.8.9  Duration. Once the Board's order granting a moratorium is issued, the building is no longer considered a nuisance or a substandard building for the duration of the moratorium with respect to those code violations expressly listed in the Board's findings and decisions.
105A.2.9  Failure to comply. Upon the failure of any owner to comply with the order of the Building  Official or the Abatement Appeals Board, the matter shall be referred within five days to the City Attorney's Office for appropriate legal action.
105A.2.10  Compensation. The members of the Abatement Appeals Board shall serve without compensation.
105A.3  Access Appeals Commission.
105A.3.1  Establishment; composition; purpose. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 19957.5 of the Health and Safety Code of the State of California, there is hereby established an Appeals Board to be known as the Access Appeals Commission composed of five members to hear written appeals brought by any person regarding action taken by the Department in the enforcement of the requirements of Part 5.5 (commencing with Section 19955), Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code of the State of California, including the exceptions contained in Section 19957 thereof, as well as action taken by the Department in the enforcement of the disabled access and adaptability provisions of this code.
105A.3.2  Appointments; qualifications; terms; vacancies; compensation. Members of the Access Appeals Commission shall be qualified and appointed as follows:
	1.	Two members of the Access Appeals Commission shall be persons with a physical disability, two members shall be experienced in construction, and one member shall be a public member. All shall be appointed by the Building Inspection Commission and serve at its pleasure. The terms shall be staggered and the term of each member shall be four years. Members shall continue in office until the expiration of his or her term and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
	2.	Upon a vacancy occurring in the membership of the Access Appeals Commission and upon the expiration in the term of office of any member, a successor shall be appointed by the Building Inspection Commission. When a vacancy occurs for any reason other than the expiration of a term of office, the appointee to fill such vacancy shall hold office for the unexpired term of his or her predecessor. The members of the Access Appeals Commission shall be reimbursed at $125 per meeting attended. The Building Official or his or her designated representative shall act as Secretary of the Access Appeals Commission, without vote and without additional compensation. The Department shall provide necessary staff service to the Access Appeals Commission.
105A.3.3  Powers and duties; finality. The Access Appeals Commission shall conduct hearings on written appeals made under Section 105A.3.4 hereof. In hearing such appeals, the Access Appeals Commission may approve or disapprove the Department's interpretations of Part 5.5, Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code of the State of California and of the disability access and adaptability requirements of this code and actions taken by the Department to enforce said requirements and abate violations. All such approvals or disapprovals shall be final and conclusive as to the Department, in the absence of fraud or prejudicial abuse of discretion. See Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – for applicable fee.
105A.3.4  Form of appeal – action on. All appeals to the Access Appeals Commission shall be made in writing and shall be filed with the Secretary of the Access Appeals Commission. The Access Appeals Commission shall act upon each appeal without unreasonable or unnecessary delay.
105A.3.4.1  Rehearings. The Access Appeals Commission may rehear an appeal upon which a decision has been rendered upon motion of a member of the Access Appeals Commission and upon the affirmative vote of at least three of its members, provided that a request for a rehearing has been made in writing within 10 days of the date of the decision. See Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – for applicable fee.
105A.3.5  Procedure. The Access Appeals Commission shall establish reasonable rules and regulations for its own procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this code and the Charter of the City and County of San Francisco. The Access Appeals Commission, by a majority vote, shall choose its officers, other than the Secretary.
105A.3.6  Meetings. Meetings of the Access Appeals Commission shall be at such times as the Access Appeals Commission may determine. All meetings of the Access Appeals Commission shall be public meetings.
105A.3.7  Agenda and record. The Access Appeals Commission shall arrange for the maintenance of a record of its agenda, actions and recommendations which shall be available to the public upon request for the cost of reproduction.
105A.3.8  Decisions by resolution. Every decision and recommendation of the Access Appeals Commission shall be by resolution, which shall be retained as part of the Access Appeals Commission's official records. A copy shall be mailed to the appellant.
105A.3.9  Waiver of fee. An exemption from paying the Access Appeals Commission Filing Fees specified in Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – may be granted upon the appellant's filing with the Department a declaration of indigency under penalty of perjury. The declaration shall be made on a form provided by the Department and shall be accompanied by such documentary proof as the Building Official shall require.
105A.3.10  Notice to Mayor's Office of Disability. Materials for each matter to be decided by the Commission shall be sent to the Mayor's Office of Disability, together with a copy of the meeting agenda, at the same time and in the same manner as the materials and agenda are provided to members of the Commission. 
105A.4  Code Advisory Committee.
105A.4.1  Establishment. There is hereby created a Code Advisory Committee consisting of seventeen members who are qualified by experience and training to pass upon matters pertaining to the development and improvement of the content of this code and the San Francisco Housing Codes and their related rules and regulations as well as provisions of other parts of the Municipal Code that the Building Official and the Building Inspection Commission determines have an impact on construction permits.
105A.4.2  Functions. Its functions shall be:
	1.	To review recommendations for code changes made by the Building Official the Building Inspection Commission pursuant to Section 104A.2.11.
	2.	To develop, review and recommend code changes to the Building Official and the Building Inspection Commission.
	3.	To review rules and regulations promulgated by the Building Official and the Building Inspection Commission pursuant to Section 104A.2.1.
	4.	To recommend to the Building Official and the Building Inspection Commission, within 30 days after the effective date of a new edition of a code, which existing Section 104A.2 rules and regulations should remain in effect, be modified or be canceled.
105A.4.3  Membership. The Code Advisory Committee shall consist of 17 members appointed by the Building Inspection Commission to serve at the Building Inspection Commission's pleasure for a three-year term or until a successor is appointed and qualified.
105A.4.3.1  Members. In the event that a vacancy occurs during the term of office of any member of the Code Advisory Committee, a new member shall be appointed in a manner similar to that described herein for new members. The membership shall consist of:
	1.	A licensed architect whose practice is primarily in the area of major commercial and institutional projects of Type I and II construction.
	2.	A licensed architect whose practice is primarily in the area of smaller commercial and residential projects of Type III and V construction.
	3.	A registered civil engineer whose practice is primarily in the area of major commercial and institutional projects of Type I and II construction and who has the authority to use the title "Structural Engineer."
	4.	A registered civil engineer whose practice is primarily in the area of smaller commercial and residential projects of Type III and V construction.
	5.	A registered mechanical engineer or licensed mechanical contractor.
	6.	A registered fire protection engineer who practices in the area of fire protection.
	7.	A registered electrical engineer or licensed electrical contractor.
	8.	A representative of a licensed general contractor whose work is primarily in the area of major commercial and institutional projects of Type I and II construction.
	9.	A representative of a licensed general contractor whose work is primarily in the area of alterations, remodeling or restoration.
	10.	A representative of a licensed general contractor whose work is primarily the construction of single- and multifamily residential construction for its own account.
	11.	A commercial property owner or a person practicing in the area of property management.
	12.	A representative of the general business community.
	13.	A person qualified in the area of historical preservation.
	14.	A person, preferably with a disability, who is knowledgeable about disability access regulations.
	15.	Three at-large members who may, but need not, possess technical skills or knowledge.
	The terms "registered  and "licensed" shall be understood to mean registered or licensed by the State of California.
	The Building Inspection Commission shall make appointments after giving careful consideration to nominations made by technical associations and other organizations, including the San Francisco Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, the Structural Engineers Association of Northern California, the Society of Fire Protection Engineers, the San Francisco District of the Associated General Contractors of California, American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., Sheet Metal and Air Conditioning Contractors National Association, San Francisco Bay Area Chapter of the National Association of the Remodeling Industry, National Electrical Contractors Association, the Residential Builders Association of San Francisco, Inc., the San Francisco Chapter of the Building Owners and Managers Association of California, the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce and the Foundation for San Francisco's Architectural Heritage.
	The following shall constitute ex officio members of the Code Advisory Committee without vote: The Building Official of the Department, who shall act as Secretary of the Code Advisory Committee, and the Fire Marshal.
105A.4.4  Procedure. The Code Advisory Committee shall establish reasonable rules for its own procedures not inconsistent with the provisions of this code and the Charter of the City and County of San Francisco. The Code Advisory Committee, by a majority vote, shall choose its officers, which shall consist of the Chairperson and the Vice- Chairperson.
105A.4.4.1  Quorum. A majority of the voting members of the Code Advisory Committee shall constitute a quorum. Any action taken by the Code Advisory Committee shall require an affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the Code Advisory Committee members present and voting. No member of the Code Advisory Committee shall pass upon any question in which the member, the firm that employs the member or any corporation in which the member is a shareholder, holds a financial interest.
105A.4.4.2  Meetings. Meetings of the Code Advisory Committee shall be scheduled at a regular place and time but not less than once monthly. The exact time and place shall be established by the Code Advisory Committee in its rules and regulations of procedure. All meetings of the Code Advisory Committee shall be open to the public.
105A.4.4.3  Agenda and record. The Code Advisory Committee shall arrange for the maintenance of a record of its agenda, actions and recommendations which shall be available to the public upon request for the cost of reproduction.
105A.5  Reserved.
105A.6  Structural Advisory Committee.
105A.6.1  Establishment. There is hereby created a three-member Structural Advisory Committee, to advise the Building Official on matters pertaining to the design and construction of buildings with special features or special design procedures. Upon request by the Building Official, the engineer of record for such a project shall demonstrate to the Structural Advisory Committee how the structural concepts, designs, details, erection methods and quality control will produce a structure that would meet the intent of Section 101A.2.
105A.6.2  Members. For consideration of each building with such special features, the Structural Advisory Committee shall consist of members who are knowledgeable in the structural engineering and construction issues presented by those special features. Members shall be selected from a list of qualified engineers submitted by the Structural Engineers Association of Northern California and approved by the Building Official. One member shall be selected by the Building Official, one member shall be selected by the owner, and the third member shall be selected jointly. Compensation of the Structural Advisory Committee members shall be by the owner. However, when the project for which Committee review is required is located in the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area, as defined by Building Code Section 106A.4.1.2 or the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area as defined by Building Code Section 106A.4.1.3 or is subject to Committee review pursuant to the Slope Protection Act, Building Code Section 106A.4.1.4.5, (a) the Committee shall consist of a structural engineer, a geologist and a geotechnical engineer; (b) the Committee shall consult with an architect, who shall be a voting member of the Committee; (c) the selection of the Committee members shall be as follows: one member shall be selected jointly by the Building Official and the Director of Public Works, one member shall be selected solely by the Building Official and one member shall be selected by the Building Official and the owner from recommendations made by interested persons, including but not limited to residents of the neighborhood surrounding the project location; and (d) to the extent feasible, the Committee members should be selected from a list submitted by the Structural Engineers Association of Northern California.
105A.6.3  Report. The Structural Advisory Committee shall submit to the Building Official a written report which shall include professional opinions concerning, but not limited to, the following:
	1.	The validity and appropriateness of the structural design concepts and criteria.
	2.	An evaluation of the structural design of the building or structure to determine its capability to perform satisfactorily beyond the elastic stresses stipulated by the code, with sufficient redundancy to accommodate overloads or failures of specific structural components.
	3.	The constructability of proposed structural details and erection methods.
	4.	The sufficiency of the proposed inspection, testing and monitoring to be provided during prior to and during construction.
105A.7  Reserved.
105A.8  Appellate authority of the Building Inspection Commission. The appellate authority of the Building Inspection Commission is as set forth in Section D3.750-4 of the San Francisco Charter, as implemented by Chapter 77 of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
SECTION 106A – PERMITS
106A.1  Permits Required. Except as specified in Section 106A.2, no building or structure regulated by this code shall be erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed, converted or demolished unless a separate permit for each building or structure has first been obtained from the Building Official.
	When considering an application for a permit for development of "dwellings" as defined in Chapter 87 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, the Department of Building Inspection shall comply with that chapter which requires, among other things, that the Department of Building Inspection not base any decision regarding the development of "dwellings" in which "protected class" members are likely to reside on information which may be discriminatory to any member of a "protected class" (as all such terms are defined in Chapter 87 of the San Francisco Administrative Code).
106A.1.1  Separate permits required. Where buildings or structures are constructed on top of a base structure, and such structures are likely to have their own addresses or functional identities, separate permits shall be required for the base structure and for each of the top buildings or structures.
106A.1.2  Permit and fees for grading, excavation, or filling of land. The valuation for the permit shall be based on the volume of material to be handled, and on a cost schedule posted in the Department. The permit issuance and plan review fees shall be the same as those for new construction. See Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees, and Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees. See Chapter 33 and Appendix J for general grading provisions. 
106A.1.3  Permits and fees for subsidewalk space. A building permit shall be obtained for construction of subsidewalk space. The fee for said permit shall be the fee set for building permits. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – for applicable fees.
	Permits for the use of subsidewalk space, except for subsurface space used to connect a building, structure or property with the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit district facilities, shall be granted after approval by the Building Official and the City Engineer. Permission for the use of subsurface space to connect with the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District facilities, shall be granted only as set forth in Section 106A.1.3.1. The City may reserve any part of the subsidewalk space for its own use or the use of the public. The Board of Supervisors reserves the right to suspend or annul the privilege of maintaining such subsidewalk space or to exact a license or rental for the use thereof. The granting of a permit to use the subsidewalk space shall carry with it the right to excavate the space and to build the necessary retaining walls. If the street in front of the building is paved, a deposit will be required of the subsidewalk space. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – for required deposit. The deposit will be refunded to the permittee upon the endorsement of the permit issued therefor and a certificate from the Department of Public Works, Bureau of Engineering, certifying to the satisfactory condition of such roadway at the end of two years after the time the pavement was restored. Should the permittee fail to restore any pavement, the Director of the Department of Public Works may, after 10 days' notice in writing posted on the building, restore the pavement and deduct the cost of such restoration from the deposit. In lieu of the deposit required herein, a bond in the amount of the deposit may be accepted in the manner set forth in Article 8 of the San Francisco Public Works Code.
	No permit shall hereafter be issued by any officer, board or commission of San Francisco to make use of the subsidewalk space within the street lines of Market Street between Steuart Street and Castro Street, except a permit may be granted for the use as subsidewalk space for the following:
	1.	The space lying contiguous to the property line and extending along a line parallel thereto and up to 22 feet distant therefrom wherever such space is located in Market Street between Steuart Street and Van Ness Avenue.
	2.	The space lying contiguous to the property line and extending along a line parallel thereto and up to 10 feet distant there from wherever such space is located in Market Street between Van Ness Avenue and Castro Street.
	Due consideration shall be given to the needs and requirements for the use of subsidewalk space by public utilities.
	The remainder of the subsidewalk space is hereby expressly reserved for public use.
106A.1.3.1  Subsurface connection to San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District facilities. Permission to use subsurface space to connect any building or structure or premises with the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District facilities shall be first obtained from the Board of Supervisors of San Francisco by resolution, prior to filing a permit to construct the connection. The Board of Supervisors reserves the right to suspend or annul the permission to use any subsurface space to connect any building, structure or premises with the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District facilities or to exact a license or rental for the use thereof. Upon the Board of Supervisors passing a resolution approving the connection, an application for a building permit to construct the connection shall be filed with the Department. The application, together with plans and specifications, shall be referred for approval to the Planning Department, the Department of Public Works, Bureau of Engineering, and any other department having jurisdiction. If approved, the approvals shall be endorsed in writing on the application by the respective departments and bureaus. The Department shall issue a building permit when the application has been approved by the Building Official, and upon payment of all required permit fees. In addition to the building permit and plan checking fees, the deposit required in Section 106A.1.3 shall also be paid to the Department and refunded as set forth in Section 106A.1.3, provided that all work under the building permit has been satisfactorily completed.
106A.1.4  Permits and fees for moving buildings.
106A.1.4.1  General. The applicant for a permit for moving a building shall pay a permit fee for documentation and inspection of the moving work. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – for applicable fee. A permit and plan review fee for work required at the building's new site shall be per Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees, and Table 1A-B – Building Permit Application and Plan Review Fees.
106A.1.4.2  Permit application for new site. Before a permit may be issued for moving a building, a building permit must be obtained for the necessary alterations and additions to the building on the new site. The application for the alterations at the new site is to be accompanied by complete plans showing floor plans, elevations, plot plan, and such other information as contained in Section 106A.3.3 as may be required by the Building Official.
106A.1.5  Permit and fees for demolition of buildings. A permit shall be required for demolishing any structure. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – and Section 110, Table 1A-L – Public Information – for applicable fees. See Section 3303 for general requirements.
106A.1.6  Permits and fees for chimneys, flues. A flue permit shall be required to erect, construct, alter or repair any chimney or flue except when it is a Type 1 grease hood or is constructed of masonry. A separate flue permit shall be required for each flue or chimney. Grease and masonry flues and chimneys shall require building permits per Section 106A. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – for applicable fees.
106A.1.6.1  Permits for boiler flues. A boiler flue permit shall be required to:
	1.	Install, alter, or replace any boiler flue or section thereof;
	2.	Install any approved type heat reclaimer or other approved type device within a boiler gas flue.
106A.1.7  Permits and fees for temporary buildings or structures. A permit is required for the construction and erection of temporary reviewing stands, bleachers, grandstands and other miscellaneous structures. The Building Official may require that any temporary building or structure be inspected by a registered civil engineer and found to be in compliance with all provisions of this code before it is permitted to be used by the public. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – for applicable fee.
106A.1.8  Garage door permits and fees. A garage door permit shall be required for the installation of such doors in existing buildings. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – for applicable fee.
	The provisions of this section shall not apply where structural alterations are made, or are required in connection with the installation of garage doors. This section also shall not apply to the alteration, repair, or replacement of garage doors in public garages. In all these cases, the permit and fee requirements of Sections 106A, 107A and 110A shall apply.
106A.1.9  Permits and fees for signs.
106A.1.9.1  General. A sign regulated under Chapter 31 shall not be erected or altered until a sign permit has been obtained for such work. Application for a permit shall be made at the Department on supplied forms. Where signs are illuminated by electric lighting, a separate permit shall be obtained as required in the Electrical Code. Replacement of copy on the face of a sign, without affecting the structural members or the attachment to a building, structure, or the ground, shall not require a sign permit.
106A.1.9.2  Permit fees. Permit fees for signs shall be based upon job valuation. See Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees – for applicable fees.
106A.1.9.3  Plan review fees for signs. See Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees – for applicable fee.
106A.1.10  Permit and fees for residential elevators and lifts.
106A.1.10.1  General. An elevator or lift regulated under Chapter 30 shall not be installed or altered until a building permit has been obtained for such work.
106A.1.10.2  Fees. The permit fees and plan review fees shall be those required in Section 110A, Tables 1A-A and 1A-B. The valuation shall be based on the total installation, including those portions, if any, which are regulated by the State.
106A.1.10.3  Exemption. Elevators regulated by the State of California are exempt from permits and the provisions of this code. However, the elevator shafts and enclosures, and any structural alterations or strengthening work to accommodate the installation, shall comply with the permit and other requirements of this code.
106A.1.11  Permit and fees for boilers. A separate building permit shall be required for a new boiler installation or replacement except where a building permit has been issued which included such work, the fee for which shall be the minimum fee per Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees. In addition, a permit to operate the boiler is required and shall be charged a fee based on the schedule in Section 110A, Table 1A-M – Boiler Fees. The fee for renewal of a permit to operate shall be based on the same schedule. Such fee shall be paid whether or not a permit to operate is issued. All fees shall be paid at the time of application for permits. Any additional fees billed will be increased to twice the billed amount when payment is not received by the Department within 30 days of billing. Failure to pay required fees will result in cancellation of the issued permit to operate. See Chapter 10 of the Mechanical Code for boiler requirements.
106A.1.12  Permit and fees for change in occupancy or use. Whenever a change in occupancy or use is made, a building permit shall be required to legalize the changed use or occupancy. The fee shall be the minimum fee required for filing for a permit and must be secured prior to the change of occupancy.
	In the event any alteration work is required, the alteration permit shall be considered sufficient for this requirement and no additional permit will be required or additional fee required for the change in use or occupancy except as set forth in Section 109A.8.
106A.1.13  Permits and fees for construction of an impervious surface in a front yard setback.
	1.	General. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commence or proceed with the construction of an impervious surface in a front yard setback area, other than a driveway as defined in the Planning Code Section 136(c)(30), unless a permit is first obtained. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – for applicable fee.
	2.	Referral to Planning Department. The Department shall refer all applications for a permit pursuant to this section to the Planning Department for a determination regarding the proposed construction's compliance with Sections 132(g) and 136(c)(30) of the Planning Code. The Department may not issue the permit unless Planning determines the proposed construction to be compliant.
	3.	Penalty for violation. Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this Section shall be guilty of an infraction. Every violation determined to be an infraction is punishable by (1) a fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation, (2) a fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year, and (3) a fine not exceeding $500 for a third violation within one year.
106A.2  Work exempt from permit. Exemptions from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction. A building permit shall not be required for the following:
	1.	One-story detached accessory buildings or structures used as tool and storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the projected roof area does not exceed 100 square feet (9.29 m2).
	2.	Fences not over 6 feet (1829 mm) high located at the rear and side lot lines at the rear of the property, and all fences not over 3 feet (914.4 m) in height.
	3.	Amusement devices not on fixed foundations.
	4.	Movable cases, counters and partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches (1753 mm) high.
	5.	Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge or impounding Class I, II or III-A liquids.
	6.	Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not exceed 5,000 gallons (18 927 L) and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not exceed 2.1.
	7.	Platforms, sidewalks, walks and driveways when not part of an exit, and not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above grade and not over any basement or story below and which, for residential buildings required to be accessible to persons with disabilities, are not part of a required accessible route.
	8.	Painting, papering and similar finish work.
	9.	Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and scenery.
	10.	Minor repairs to existing interior plaster or wallboard, except when part of a fire-resistive assembly.
	11.	Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R, Division 3 Occupancy in which the pool walls are entirely above the adjacent grade and if the capacity does not exceed 5,000 gallons (18 927 L).
	12.	State-owned buildings under the jurisdiction of the state fire marshal. Unless otherwise exempted, separate plumbing, electrical and mechanical permits will be required for the above-exempted items.
	13.	Reroofing without the installation, repair or removal of roof sheathing, if the total surface area of the roof reroofed in any 12-month period does not exceed 25 percent of the entire surface area of the roof.
	14.	Surface mounting of readily removable materials on interior walls.
	15.	Work performed on structures owned and occupied by the Federal or State government. This exemption shall not apply to privately operated structures erected on government-owned land, or to privately owned land or structures leased to the Federal or State government, or to structures owned and operated by State educational institutions unless such structures are owned and used exclusively for educational purposes or other uses related to the institution's educational purposes, such as student cafeterias or dormitories.
	16.	Installations or replacement of floor coverings in areas other than bathrooms and toilet rooms not requiring the removal of existing required flooring.
	17.	Repair and replacement of glazing in conformity with this code, and provided wire glass shall be replaced in kind.
	18.	Replacement of doors, except garage doors, in all occupancies, provided they are not part of fire- resistive assemblies required by this code.
	19.	Work performed on structures owned or leased by the City and County of San Francisco where the construction or modification of said structure is financed in whole or in part by the issuance of lease revenue bonds prior to July 1, 1989.
	20.	See Section 3107.1.1 for exempt signs.
	21.	See Section J103.2 for grading permit exemptions.
	22.	See Section 106A.1.10.3 for Elevators regulated by the state exemption.
106A.3.1  Application. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished by the code enforcement agency for that purpose. Every such application shall:
	1.	Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which application is made.
	2.	Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal description, street address or similar description that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
	3.	For new buildings or structures, indicate the use or occupancy of all parts of the building or structure for which the proposed work is intended. For alteration work, indicate the proposed use or occupancy and the most current legal use or occupancy of all portions of the building or structure affected by or relevant to the proposed work.
	4.	Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computations and specifications and other data as required in Section 106A.3.2.
	5.	State the valuation of any new building or structure or any addition, remodeling or alteration to an existing building.
	6.	Be signed by the owner, or the owner's authorized agent, who may be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority. Such agent shall be responsible for advising the owner of all conditions attached to the application by the various approving agencies.
	7.	Give such other data and information as may be required by the building official.
	8.	Include, when available, the name, address and telephone number of the owner or contractor. When applicable, State and City license numbers shall be indicated.
	9.	Contain an agreement by the owner of the premises to hold harmless the City and County of San Francisco and its officials and employees from all costs, liability and damages resulting, whether directly or indirectly, from use or occupancy of the sidewalk, street or subsidewalk space, or from anything in connection with the work included in the permit. The agreement shall run with the land and be binding on all of the owner's successors in title.
106A.3.1.1  Application processing. The application, plans, specifications and other information submitted shall be referred for such review and approval as is required under applicable ordinances and laws. Each such reviewing bureau, department or agency shall indicate in a manner determined by the Building Official its approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval.
106A.3.1.2  Transfer of application. Applications are transferable with payment of additional fees when the new owner submits a letter to the Department agreeing to all conditions of approval, stipulations and agreements contained on the application, per Table 1A-D.
106A.3.2  Submittal documents. Plans, specifications, engineering calculations, diagrams, soil investigation reports, special inspection and structural observation programs and other data shall constitute the submittal documents for a permit. When such plans are not prepared by an architect, land surveyor, or an engineer, the Building Official may require the applicant submitting such plans or other data to demonstrate that state law does not require that the plans be prepared by a licensed architect, land surveyor, or engineer. The Building Official may require plans, computations and specifications to be prepared and designed by an engineer or architect licensed by the state to practice as such even if not required by State law. Materials submitted by a licensed architect, land surveyor, or engineer must be signed and sealed with an original signature on the first sheet of each set of documents, and facsimile stamps plus the required registration seal of the architect, land surveyor, or engineer on the balance of the sheets.
	Two complete sets of plans and specifications and three copies of the soil investigation report (when required) shall be submitted. Additional complete sets of plans and specifications may be required for special permit processing services that may be offered by the City and County of San Francisco.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	The requirements for plans or specifications may be waived by the Building Official, provided that the nature and extent of the proposed construction can be clearly described in writing, and such a description is filed with the application.
	2.	In addition to all other requirements of Section 106A.3.2, the following requirements shall apply to: (a) applications for construction of new buildings or structures, and to alterations that involve a substantial increase in the building envelope of an existing building or structure, within the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area, created by Building Code Section 106A.4.1.2, and within the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area, created by Section 106A.4.1.3 and (b) application for construction on property subject to the Slope Protection Act created by Building Code Section 106A.4.1.4:
	The Building Official may not waive the requirements for submittal documents set forth in Section 106A.3.2.
	Submittal documents shall substantiate that the building or structure will comply with applicable codes and regulations.
	Submittal documents shall include (1) plans prepared by a State-licensed architect, land surveyor, or engineer and (2) a construction/staging plan establishing that the proposed construction will not compromise the health, safety or welfare of neighboring property owners. Submittal documents shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Building Official, based on consultation with and written communications from appropriate City officials, including the Director of the Department of Public Works, that there is sufficient infrastructure (including utilities and streets) to support the proposed residential development and that the proposed emergency vehicle access routes comply with the standards in use by the Fire Department or similar agency in effect at the time the application is submitted.
106A.3.2.1  Incomplete applications. The Department will not process an application which is not completely or properly filled out pursuant to the requirements of this section. When the submittal documents do not contain the information required by this the application shall not be accepted.
106A.3.2.2  Demolition. An application for a permit to demolish a building or structure shall not be deemed complete until (a) the applicant declares under penalty of perjury that every party who has a recorded interest in the property that is the subject of the application has been notified of the filing of the application. See Section 110A, Table 1A-L – Public Information – for fee to defray the cost of maintaining records of such declarations and other attendant costs and (b) the Department receives written notice from the Department of Environment that the Department of the Environment has approved the applicant's waste diversion plan in accordance with Chapter 14 of the Environment Code.
106A.3.2.2.1  Demolition application and notification. Upon receipt of an application which would authorize the tearing down or demolition of a building or structure, the Department shall mail written notice to the owners of properties at least 300 feet (91.44 m) in every direction from the edge of the property on which the proposed demolition work will take place, as shown on the last annual tax roll, and shall provide notice to each residential tenant of the property that is the subject of the application and of the property immediately adjacent to such property. Said notice shall include the street address of the proposed work and the name and address of the property owner and, if known, of the contractor.
106A.3.2.2.2  Notice to interested parties. Any of the following organizations or groups may request notification of the receipt by the Department of an application for a demolition permit and of the issuance thereof:
	1.	Architectural or historic preservation or housing conservation groups.
	2.	Recycling companies.
Such request shall be in writing to the Department, on forms furnished by the Department. The organization or group shall specify the area(s) of the City and County of San Francisco for which notification is requested, and the Building Official shall establish the boundaries of such areas for purposes of such notification. Requests shall be made annually, within 30 days after July 1 of each year. See Section 110A, Table 1A-L – Public Information – for fees. Fees may be prorated by the Department for any requests which are received at other times during the year.
106A.3.2.3  Substantial alterations – Notification, sign posting and affidavits. In addition to any other requirements for notice set forth in this code, the following shall apply:
	Any person filing an application to substantially alter, as that term is defined by the Building Official, an apartment house or residential hotel (as defined in Section 41.4(p) of the San Francisco Administrative Code) that contains five or more dwelling units shall post a sign at least 15 inches by 15 inches (381 mm × 381 mm) in a conspicuous common area of the apartment house or residential hotel for at least 15 days with the following information: notice that the application has been made, the nature of the work to be performed, the means of obtaining information from the Department, and the procedure for appealing the issuance of building permits. In occupied residential unreinforced masonry buildings, required signs shall also include specified information provided by the Building Official. The applicant shall thereafter submit an affidavit signed under penalty of perjury stating that the sign has been posted as required by this section. See Section 110A, Table 1A-L – Public Information – for fee to defray the cost of maintaining records of said affidavits. The Building Official shall not approve the application until this affidavit is submitted. If there is reason to believe that the sign was not posted as required, the Building Official shall investigate the matter, shall provide the applicant an opportunity to respond to any complaint of noncompliance, shall determine whether the requirements of this section have been substantially met, and shall cancel an application or revoke the permit if it is determined they have not been substantially met.
106A.3.2.4  Hazardous substances.
106A.3.2.4.1  Soil and/or groundwater sampling and analysis required. Applicants for any building or grading permit which involves the disturbance of at least 50 cubic yards (38.23 m3) of soil shall comply with the requirements for soil and/or groundwater sampling and analysis of Article 22A of the Health Code, unless such property is subject to Health Code 22A.9 when any part of the work will occur 
	(a)	bayward of the 1851 high-tide line as indicated on the Map of the City and County of San Francisco (adopted June 27, 1986) (see Figure 1A-1) which is maintained for public distribution by the Building Official;
	(b)	 in any area of the City designated by the Director of Public Health under Article 22A of the Health Code;
	(c)	on any lot within the City either presently or previously zoned for industrial use as defined in Article 22A of the Health Code;
	(d)	on any lot within the City either presently or previously permitted for industrial use;
	(e)	on any lot within the City within 150 feet of any of the elevated portions of the following highways: U.S. Highway 101, Interstate 80, Interstate 280;
	(f)	on any lot in the City known or suspected by the Department of Public Health to contain hazardous substances in the soil and/or groundwater, using the definition of hazardous substance contained in Article 22A of the Health Code, or;
	(g)	on any lot of the City known or suspected by the Department of Public Health to contain or to be within 100 feet of an underground storage tank.
Note: Figure 1A-1 is included at the end of this chapter.
106A.3.2.4.2  Permit approval. 
	(a)	Except as provided in subsection (b), no building permit application subject to the requirements of this Section shall be considered acceptable for review and approved until the Department receives written notification from the Director of Public Health that the applicant has complied with all applicable provisions of Article 22A of the Health Code that can be completed without a permit, or that the requirements have been waived.
	(b)	Subsection (a) does not apply to the following extent:
		(1)	The Building Official may consider an application acceptable for review and issue a site permit pursuant to Section 106A.3.4.2 prior to the time an applicant complies with this Section.
		(2)	The Building Official may consider an application acceptable for review and issue site permit addenda and other permit(s) to undertake soil sampling or mitigation measures to comply with this section.
106A.3.2.4.3  No time limits. For the purposes of completing the requirements of this Section, the time limitations set forth in Section 106A.3.7 of the San Francisco Building Code do not apply.
106A.3.2.4.4  Permit notification and warning.
	(a)	The Building Department shall provide information to all permit applicants of Bay Area Air Quality Management District and California Air Resources Board regulations, as well as San Francisco Health Code Article 22B and Building Code requirements regarding construction dust control to mitigate potential adverse public health effects from dust in general, and from naturally occurring asbestos that may be released during construction activities. 
	(b)	All building permits and grading permits issued by the Building Department under this Section 106A.3.2.4 shall bear the following printed warning:
	WARNING
	Under San Francisco Building Code Section 106A.3.2.4.2, certain building permits may be issued only after the permittee analyzes the soil and/or groundwater for the presence of hazardous substances and, where applicable, the Department of Public Health has approved the permittee's site mitigation plan. In issuing this permit, neither the City nor any of its officers or employees make any representation that the soil and/or groundwater on or about the site is free from the presence of hazardous substances. Nor does the City's implementation of this process relieve any person from their duties and responsibilities relating to hazardous substance contamination under state and federal low. Neither subsurface soil analysis under Building Code Section 106A.3.2.4.2 nor the issuance of this permit is intended to alter extinguish, or transfer these responsibilities.
106A.3.2.5  Hunters Point Shipyard.
106A.3.2.5.1  Compliance required. Applicants for any building or grading permit for Hunters Point Shipyard, which involves subsurface disturbance of soil or the extraction or management of groundwater, except where such permit is for purposes of environmental characterization, and except, in the case of property determined by the applicable ROD to be suitable for unrestricted residential use, where such permit involves subsurface disturbance of less than 50 cubic yards (38.23 m3) of soil, shall comply with the requirements of Article 31 of the Health Code. Hunters Point Shipyard is that area of the City and County of San Francisco shown on Article 31 Map-Figure 1, which is maintained for public distribution by the Building Official. A copy of said Figure is on file with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors in File No. 100577. 
106A.3.2.5.2  Permit approval. No building permit application subject to the requirements of this section shall be deemed to be complete until the Department receives written notification from the Director of Public Health that the applicant has complied with all applicable provisions of Article 31 of the Health Code. Approvals or conditions imposed in writing by the Department of Public Health shall become conditions of the permit issued by the Department, and violation of such approvals or conditions shall be deemed a violation of the permit.
EXCEPTION:
	1.	The Building Official may issue a site permit pursuant to Section 106A.3.4.2 prior to the time an applicant complies with this section.
	2.	Site permit addenda and other permit(s) may be issued to excavate soil or undertake soil sampling or implement other requirements of Article 31 of the Health Code.
106A.3.2.5.3  No time limits. For the purposes of completing the requirements of this section, the time limitations set forth in Section 106A.3.7 of the San Francisco Building Code do not apply.
106A.3.2.5.4  Permit notification. All building permits and grading permits issued by the Department of Building Inspection shall bear notice of the above requirements and of the permittee's responsibility to comply. 
106A.3.2.6  Construction dust control.
106A.3.2.6.1  Dust control required. All applicants for a building, demolition, excavation, grading, foundation, or other permit required by this Code to construct a new building, to demolish a building, to substantially alter or to add to an existing building shall comply with the requirements for dust control and, in addition, for projects over a half acre the applicant will be required to submit a Dust Control Plan for approval by the San Francisco Health Department as set forth in Article 22B of the San Francisco Health Code.
106A.3.2.6.2  Permit approval. For projects of over one half acre in size, no building or other permit application subject to the requirements of this section shall be approved until the Department of Building Inspection receives either
	(a)	written notification from the Director of Public Health that the applicant either has a site-specific dust control plan for the project approved by the Director of Public Health or the Director of Public Health has waived the requirement or
	(b)	the applicant qualifies as an interior only tenant improvement project that will not produce exterior visible dust and therefore is exempt from complying with Article 22B of the San Francisco Health Code.
	EXCEPTION: The Director may issue a site permit pursuant to Section 106A.3.4.2 prior to the time an applicant complies with this section.
106A.3.2.6.3  General dust control requirements.
	(a)	All site preparation work, demolition or construction activities within the City and County of San Francisco that have the potential to create dust or will expose or disturb more than 10 cubic yards or 500 square feet of soil shall comply with the requirements of this Section whether or not the activity requires a permit from the Department of Building Inspection.
	(b)	For projects over one half acre in size, the project sponsor shall designate a person or persons who will be responsible for monitoring compliance with dust control requirements. The designated person or persons shall be on the site or available by telephone or other means during all times that site preparation, demolition or construction activities may be in progress, including holidays and weekends. The name and telephone number where such person or persons may be reached at all times shall be provided to the Director and to the Director of Public Health prior to commencement of work on the project.
	(c)	The project sponsor and the contractor responsible for construction activities at the project site shall use the following practices to control construction dust on the site or other practices that result in equivalent dust control that are acceptable to the Director.
		(1)	Water all active construction areas sufficiently to prevent dust from becoming airborne. Increased watering frequency may be necessary whenever wind speeds exceed 15 miles per hour. Reclaimed water must be used if required by Article 21, Section 1100 et seq. of the San Francisco Public Works Code. If not required, reclaimed water should be used whenever possible.
		(2)	Provide as much water as necessary to control dust (without creating run-off) in any area of land clearing, earth movement, excavation, drillings, and other dust-generating activity.
		(3)	During excavation and dirt-moving activities, wet sweep or vacuum the streets, sidewalks, paths, and intersections where work is in progress at the end of the workday.
		(4)	Cover any inactive (no disturbance for more than seven days) stockpiles greater than ten cubic yards or 500 square feet of excavated materials, backfill material, import material, gravel, sand, road base, and soil with a 10 mil (0.01 inch) polyethylene plastic or equivalent tarp and brace it down or use other equivalent soil stabilization techniques.
		(5)	Use dust enclosures, curtains, and dust collectors as necessary to control dust in the excavation area.
106A.3.2.6.4  Large projects. If the project is over one half acre in size and the project does not qualify for an interior only tenant improvement project exemption or the Department of Public Health has not issued a waiver for a site-specific dust control plan for the project; construction, demolition, excavation, grading, foundation work, or other permitted activities may not commence until the owner or the owner's agent has submitted to the Department a copy of the Director of Public Health's written approval of the dust control plan. All site preparation and construction activities on the job site shall comply with the general requirements for dust control and the site-specific dust control plan approved by the Director of Public Health. The failure to comply with all provisions of the approved site-specific dust control plan shall be considered a violation of this Code.
106A.3.2.6.5  Waiver of requirements for compliance for small sites; rescission of waiver. For sites less than a half acre in size:
	(a)	The Director may waive these requirements if the applicant demonstrates to the Director's satisfaction that the proposed site preparation, demolition or construction activities are unlikely to result in any visible windblown dust.
	(b)	If at any time, contrary to the applicant's assertions, the construction activities produce visible windblown dust, the Director may issue a written order rescinding the waiver. A copy of the rescission order shall be personally served on the owner of the property at the address on file with the Department of Building Inspection and posted on the job site.
	(c)	If the Director orders rescission of the waiver, the owner of the property and the contractor or other persons responsible for construction activities at the site shall comply immediately with the above dust control requirements.
106A.3.2.6.6  Permit notification. All building, demolition, excavation, grading, foundation, or other permit subject to this section issued by the Department of Building Inspection shall bear notice of the above requirements and of the owner's responsibility to control construction dust on the site.
106A.3.2.6.7  Violations. Upon receipt of complaints, the Director is authorized to administer and enforce all provisions of this Section and may enforce the provisions of this Section by any lawful means available for such purpose, including taking actions authorized pursuant to Section 103 of this Code.
106A.3.2.6.8  Fees. The Department shall determine and recommend to the Board of Supervisors the amount of fee that is required to compensate the Department for the costs of enforcing these dust control requirements.
106A.3.3  Information on plans and specifications. Plans and specifications shall be drawn to scale on substantial paper of a size not less than 11-inch by 17-inch (279.4 mm × 431.8 mm) and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. Specific plans and information required shall include any of the following that is appropriate for the work being proposed:
	1.	The Assessor's block and lot number on the first sheet or page of each set of plans and other submittal documents.
	2.	A dimensioned plot plan showing sidewalk widths, street widths, lot lines, locations of proposed or existing buildings or structures on the property, and full widths, heights and setbacks of buildings on adjacent properties where their locations or heights affect the code requirements of the subject building or structure. Locations of parking or loading spaces and of aboveground hydrants and utility poles shall also be shown. The Building Official may require the owner to have the lot surveyed and staked by a registered land surveyor or registered civil engineer so that the proper location of the building on the lot may be determined. A copy of this survey shall be filed with the application for the permit.
	3.	All existing and future finished grades for new buildings or structures and additions to existing buildings or structures, including official curb and street grades.
	4.	Complete dimensioned exterior elevations showing types of wall materials, locations and sizes of wall openings, roof heights and setbacks from property lines. The existing and future exterior grade profiles on each side of the building extending to any adjoining buildings, structures or properties which might be affected by this work shown on the elevations unless a topographic map prepared by a licensed surveyor is submitted.
	5.	Dimensioned architectural floor plan for each floor, basement and roof unless the floor plans are identical. The scale shall be not less than 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) to 1 foot (304.8 mm) unless otherwise permitted by the Building Official. The floor plan shall show the gross area of each use area on each floor, and the total area of each floor. Structural, mechanical and other detailed information shall not be superimposed unless the resultant floor plans are clearly legible and understandable.
	6.	For alteration work, all existing partitions and construction that are to be removed or altered and all that are to remain unchanged.
	7.	Identification on the architectural floor plans of the use or occupancy classifications of all new and existing areas of the building.
	8.	Cross-sections as necessary, including information on location and depth of footings of adjacent buildings or structures which might be affected by this work.
	9.	Information regarding all architectural and structural materials to be installed in the building.
	10.	Details of all fire-resistive assemblies and elements, and provisions for maintaining the integrity of fire-resistive assemblies or elements where penetrated.
	11.	Information regarding the installation, location and support of building utilities, including plumbing systems, and electrical equipment, wiring and systems.
	12.	Structural plans and calculations detailing all components of the vertical load carrying system, including joists, beams, girders, columns, bearing walls and locations and depths of footings. Connection details and cross-sections to show how the loads are transferred and carried from the roof to the foundation. Live load clearly designated on the plan for each use area.
	13.	Structural plans and calculations detailing all elements of the lateral force resisting system, including horizontal and vertical diaphragms, connections and details that completely identify the lateral force load path from the roof to the foundation.
	14.	Special inspection and structural observation program required by Sections 106A.3.5, 1704 and 1709.
	15.	Geotechnical report when work involves significant grading, excavation or fill, or uses special foundations; or when the site is included in the State of California Seismic Hazard Zones Map, Special Soils Map or other area identified by the Building Official. See Appendix J, for additional grading permit requirements.
	16.	Hydraulic design drawings and calculations for sprinkler systems and standpipes.
	17.	Information on plans demonstrating compliance with energy conservation requirements.
	18.	Information on plans demonstrating compliance with applicable sound transmission requirements.
	19.	Information on plans demonstrating compliance with applicable disabled access requirements.
	20.	Information on plans demonstrating compliance with water conservation and reclamation requirements.
	21.	Landscaping and irrigation plans, when required by the Planning Department, Department of Public Works or other agencies.
	22.	Photographs when required by the Planning Department or other agencies.
	23.	For a building that is an unsafe structure as defined in Section 102A, sufficient information to show how all unsafe conditions will be corrected.
	24.	All other information necessary for determining compliance with applicable codes and regulations.
106A.3.4  Architect or engineer of record. 
106A.3.4.1  General. When it is required that documents be prepared by an architect or engineer, the building official may require the owner to engage and designate on the building permit application an architect or engineer who shall act as the architect or engineer of record. If the circumstances require, the owner may designate a substitute architect or engineer of record who shall perform all of the duties required of the original architect or engineer of record. The building official shall be notified in writing by the owner if the architect or engineer of record is changed or is unable to continue to perform the duties.
The architect or engineer of record shall be responsible for reviewing and coordinating all submittal documents prepared by others, included deferred submittal items, for compatibility with the design of the building.
106A.3.4.2  Site permit. A site permit may be issued for the construction or major alteration, as that term is defined by the Building Official, of a building or structure upon approval of preliminary drawings and before the entire working drawings and specifications of the building or structure have been completed and submitted for approval.
	Such preliminary drawings and specifications shall clearly indicate the nature, character and extent of the work proposed. The application procedure shall comply with Sections 106A.1 through 106A.4 except for the completeness of plans. The permit issuance fees and plan review fees shall be as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees, and Table 1A-B  – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees, and shall be calculated on the basis of the total valuation of the work. No construction work shall be done under the site permit. Construction may proceed after the appropriate addenda have been issued. In no case shall construction exceed the scope of the issued addenda. 
	Site Permit must be issued prior to submittal of 1st addendum.
	Plans for construction may be divided and submitted in accordance with an addenda schedule submitted on the site permit drawings or on the first addendum drawings. See Section 110A, Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees – for applicable fee.
	The holder of such permit and addenda shall proceed with approved addenda work at the permittee's own risk, without assurance that approvals for the remaining addenda or for the entire building or structure will be granted.
	Each addendum must be approved and issued before work shown on that addendum may commence. The time allowed for review, approval and issuance of all addenda is governed by the maximum time allowed per Section 106A.4.4 and Table B – Maximum Time Allowed to Complete All Work Authorized by Building Permit. The extension times may be applied upon payment of fee per Section 110A, Table 1A-J – Miscellaneous Fees. If all required addenda are not approved and issued by the maximum time allowed, the site permit, all previously approved addenda, and all remaining addenda shall be deemed to be canceled. When a site permit has been canceled, an alteration work application shall be required to resume processing. The provisions of Section 107A.3.3 shall apply to such alteration work application.
106A.3.5  Inspection and observation program. When special inspection is required under Chapter 17, the architect or engineer of record shall prepare an inspection program that shall be submitted to the building official for approval prior to issuance of the building permit. The inspection program shall designate the portions of the work that require special inspection and the name or names of the individuals or firms who are to perform the special inspections, and indicate the duties of the special inspectors.
	The special inspector shall be employed by the owner, the engineer or architect of record, or an agent of the owner, but not the contractor or any other person responsible for the work.
	When structural observation is required under Chapter 17, the inspection program shall name the individuals or firms who are to perform structural observation and describe the stages of construction at which structural observation is to occur.
	The inspection program shall include samples of inspection reports and provide time limits for submission of reports.
106A.3.6  Permit facilitator. Any permit applicant may use the services of a Permit Facilitator. The Permit Facilitator shall be under the jurisdiction of the Building Official. The duties of the Permit Facilitator include distributing permit application submittals to various review disciplines, departments or agencies; and providing the project sponsor with a single point of contact regarding permit application status, procedures or requirements. The fee for such service shall be per Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees – and shall be paid upon filing of a permit application.
106A.3.7  Application expiration. The Building Official may hold in abeyance or reject any application, plans, or specifications filed which in the Building Official's opinion, do not provide the necessary information in a clear and concise manner as required in Section 106A.3.3, and shall cancel such an application upon the expiration of the time period set forth per Table A.
	At the time the application has been deemed acceptable for building plan review by the Department of Building Inspection, any corrections, additional information, plans or documents that are necessary to complete the processing by the Department of Building Inspection shall be submitted and approved within the following time limitations:
TABLE A – APPLICATION EXPIRATION
ValuationTime LimitationExtension Limitation$1.00 to $1 million360 calendar days360 calendar daysOver $1 million720 calendar days720 calendar days
	The time limitation shall apply until the application has been approved and permit is issued. A one-time extension per Table A may be granted by the Building Official at any point during the approval process, upon written request by the applicant and payment of fee. Additional extensions may be granted by the Building Official prior to extension expiration upon written request from the applicant and payment of fee. See Section 110A, Table 1A-J – Miscellaneous Fees – for applicable fee. In the event an extension of time extends the life of an application beyond the effective date of the adoption of a new code, the Building Official may require that all or part of the application be subject to the provisions of the new code and payment of an additional plan review fee per Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees. In the event the application has not been approved and issued within 60 days before the end of the stated time period in Table A, the Department shall notify the applicant that the application will be canceled in 60 days unless the application is extended. An application which exceeds the stated or extended time period after such notice shall be deemed canceled without further action by the Department.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	For applications resulting from enforcement actions initiated by the Building Official to abate code violations, the above time limits shall be reduced to 30 days and 10 days, respectively. The Building Official may grant an extension for hardship or procedural error. Upon cancellation, such cases shall be referred to the City Attorney for legal action.
	2.	The above time limits shall not apply to applications which are subject to the work without permit investigation fee per Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments. Such applications shall be canceled only through specific action by the Building Official.
	3.	The above time limits shall be suspended whenever an application is returned to the Planning Department for review due to a design change that the Building Code(s) requires.
106A.3.8  Disapproval of application. Any application that does not meet the requirements of this code or any other laws, ordinances or regulations enforced by any interested departments or agencies shall be disapproved by the Building Official or upon request by the applicant. If such a request is not made by the applicant to disapprove an application, the Building Official shall notify the applicant that the application will be disapproved in 60 days and the application revoked.
106A.3.8.1  Withdrawal of application. Applications filed for permits may be withdrawn by the owner, provided that no part of the work proposed on the application has been performed. All applicable fees must be paid before an application can be withdrawn.
106A.4  Permits Issuance.
106A.4.1  Issuance. The application, plans, specifications, computations and other data filed by an applicant for a permit shall be reviewed by the building official. Such plans may/shall be reviewed by other departments of this jurisdiction to verify compliance with any applicable laws under their jurisdiction. If the Building Official finds that the work described in an application for a permit and the plans, specifications and other data filed therewith conform to the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, and that the fees specified in Section 107A have been paid, the building official shall issue a permit therefor to the applicant.
	When the building official issues the permit where plans are required, the building official shall stamp each page of the plans and the first page of the specifications APPROVED. Such approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorizations from the building official, and all work regulated by this code shall be done in accordance with the approved plans.
	The building official may issue a permit for the construction of part of a building or structure before the entire plans and specifications for the whole building or structure have been submitted or approved, provided adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all pertinent requirements of this code. The holder of a partial permit shall proceed without assurance that the permit for the entire building or structure will be granted.
106A.4.1.1  Transfer of permit. Permits are transferable without payment of fees per Table 1A-D when the new owner submits a letter to the Department agreeing to all conditions of approval, stipulations and agreements contained on the approved application.
106A.4.1.2  Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area.
106A.4.1.2.1  Creation. There is hereby created the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area, which is generally bounded by Garcia Avenue, Vasquez Avenue, Kensington Way and Ulloa Street and traversed by Edgehill Way. The Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area is comprised of the following Assessor's Block Numbers: 2875, 2876, 2923, 2933, 2934, 2935, 2936A and 2936B. Heightened review of certain permit applications, as provided in this section, shall be made in this area.
106A.4.1.2.2  Purpose. Because landslides, earth movement, ground shaking and subsidence are likely to occur on or near the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area, causing severe damage and destruction to public and private improvements, the Board of Supervisors finds that the public health, safety and welfare is best protected if the Building Official of Building Inspection causes permit applications within the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area for either (1) construction of new buildings or structures or (2) alterations that involve a substantial increase in the envelope of an existing building or structure, to be peer reviewed for structural integrity and effect on hillside stability. The requirements herein for projects in the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area are in addition to all other applicable laws and regulations, including any and all requirements for environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act; compliance with the requirements contained herein does not excuse a project sponsor from compliance with any other applicable laws and regulations.
106A.4.1.2.3  Mandatory review by Structural Advisory Committee and other city officials. All permit applications submitted to the Central Permit Bureau for construction of new buildings or structures or alterations that involve a substantial increase in the envelope of an existing building or structure (as determined by the Building Official) within the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area shall be submitted to and reviewed by the Structural Advisory Committee, as defined by Building Code Section 105A.6. No permits for such properties located within the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area shall be issued unless and until the Building Official has consulted with and received a written communication from representatives of the Department of Planning, Department of Public Works and Fire Department, each of whom has made a visit to the site for which the project is proposed, and the Building Official has received a written report from the Structural Advisory Committee concerning the safety and integrity of the proposed design and construction. As part of its review, the Structural Advisory Committee shall consider the effect that construction activity related to the proposed project will have on the safety and stability of the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area.
106A.4.1.2.4  Mandatory denial by Building Official. In the event that the Structural Advisory Committee determines that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed design and construction would result in unsafe conditions or would increase the likelihood of hillside instability, and such unsafe conditions or instability cannot be mitigated to the satisfaction of the Structural Advisory Committee, the Building Official shall deny the permit. The Building Official's decision to deny the permit is appealable only to the Board of Appeals.
106A.4.1.3  Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area. 
106A.4.1.3.1  Creation. There is hereby created the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area, which is generally bounded on the east by Crestmont Drive and its undeveloped northern extension, on the south along Oak Park to its intersection with Christopher Boulevard, west to Warren Drive, north along Warren Drive to the 6th Avenue and Kirkham Street intersection, and Kirkham Street in an easterly direction to its end at the undeveloped extension of Crestmont Drive. The Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area is comprised of the following Assessor's Block Numbers: 1850, 1851, 2635, 2636, 2638, 2674, 2675, 2676, 2677, and 2686. Heightened review of certain permit applications, as provided in this section, shall be made in this area.
106A.4.1.3.2  Purpose. Because landslides, earth movement, ground shaking and subsidence are likely to occur on or near the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area, causing severe damage and destruction to public and private improvements, the Board of Supervisors finds that the public health, safety and welfare is best protected if the Building Official of Building Inspection causes permit applications within the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area for either (1) construction of new buildings or structures or (2) alterations that involve a substantial increase in the envelope of an existing building or structure, to be peer reviewed for structural integrity and effect on hillside stability. The requirements herein for projects in the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area are in addition to all other applicable laws and regulations, including any and all requirements for environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act; compliance with the requirements contained herein does not excuse a project sponsor from compliance with any other applicable laws and regulations.
106A.4.1.3.3  Mandatory review by Structural Advisory Committee and other city officials. All permit applications submitted to the Central Permit Bureau for construction of new buildings or structures or alterations that involve a substantial increase in the envelope of an existing building or structure (as determined by the Building Official) within the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area shall be submitted to and reviewed by the Structural Advisory Committee, as defined by Building Code Section 105A.6. No permits for such properties located within the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area shall be issued unless and until the Building Official has consulted with and received a written communication from representatives of the Department of Planning, Department of Public Works and Fire Department, each of whom has made a visit to the site for which the project is proposed, and the Building Official has received a written report from the Structural Advisory Committee concerning the safety and integrity of the proposed design and construction. As part of its review, the Structural Advisory Committee shall consider the effect that construction activity related to the proposed project will have on the safety and stability of the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area.
106A.4.1.3.4  Mandatory denial by Building Official. In the event that the Structural Advisory Committee determines that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed design and construction would result in unsafe conditions or would increase the likelihood of hillside instability, and such unsafe conditions or instability cannot be mitigated to the satisfaction of the Structural Advisory Committee, the Building Official shall deny the permit. The Building Official's decision to deny the permit is appealable only to the Board of Appeals.
106A.4.1.4  The Slope Protection Act. This Section of the San Francisco Building Code shall be known as the Slope Protection Act.
106A.4.1.4.1  Creation. The Slope Protection Act shall apply to all property within San Francisco that falls within certain mapped areas of the City, except those properties already subject to the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area or the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area. For purposes of this Section "property" shall mean a legal lot of record. Heightened review of certain permit applications, as provided in this section, shall be given to all property subject to this Act.
106A.4.1.4.2  Purpose. Because landslides, earth movement, ground shaking and subsidence are likely to occur on or near steeply sloped properties and within other defined areas causing severe damage and destruction to public and private improvements, the Board of Supervisors finds that the public health, safety and welfare is best protected if the Building Official causes permit applications for the construction of new buildings or structures and certain other construction work on property subject to the Slope Protection Act to undergo additional review for structural integrity and effect on slope stability. The requirements for projects subject to the Slope Protection Act are in addition to all other applicable laws and regulations, including any and all requirements for environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act; compliance with the requirements contained herein does not excuse a project sponsor from compliance with any other applicable laws and regulations.
106A.4.1.4.3  Scope. Properties are subject to these requirements where any portion of the property lies within the areas of "Earthquake-Induced Landslide" in the Seismic Hazard Zone Map, released by California Department of Conservation, Division of Mines and Geology, dated November 17, 2000, or amendments thereto; or within the "Landslide Hazard Areas" mapped as "Landslide Locations" in Figure 4 of the San Francisco Seismic Safety Investigation report prepared by URS/John A. Blume & Associates, Engineers, June 1974, or any successor map thereto.
	Proposed construction work that is subject to these requirements includes the construction of new buildings or structures having over 1000 square feet of new projected roof area and horizontal or vertical additions having over 1000 square feet of new projected roof area. In addition, these requirements shall apply to the following activity or activities, if, in the opinion of the Director, the proposed work may have a substantial impact on the slope stability of any property: shoring, underpinning, excavation or retaining wall work; grading, including excavation or fill, of over fifty (50) cubic yards of earth materials; or any other construction activity.
106A.4.1.4.4  Mandatory submittal of reports and geotechnical engineering review. All permit applications submitted to the Department of Building Inspection for construction subject to the Slope Protection Act shall include report(s) prepared and signed by both a licensed geologist and a licensed geotechnical engineer identifying areas of potential slope instability, defining potential risks of development due to geological and geotechnical factors, and drawing conclusions and making recommendations regarding the proposed development. These reports shall undergo design review by a licensed geotechnical engineer. Such design review shall verify that appropriate geological and geotechnical issues have been considered and that appropriate slope instability mitigation strategies, including drainage plans if required, have been proposed.
106A.4.1.4.5  Structural Advisory Committee and mandatory denial by Building Official. After reviewing all submitted information pursuant to Section 106A.4.1.4.4, the Director, in his or her sole discretion, may require that the permit application be subject to review by a Structural Advisory Committee, as defined by Building Code Section 105A.6. When subject to such Structural Advisory Committee review, no permits shall be issued unless and until the Building Official has consulted with and received a written communication from representatives of the Department of Planning, Department of Public Works and Fire Department, each of whom has made a visit to the site for which the project is proposed, and the Building Official has received a written report from the Structural Advisory Committee concerning the safety and integrity of the proposed design and construction. As part of its review, the Structural Advisory Committee shall consider the effect that construction activity related to the proposed project will have on the safety and stability of the property subject to the Slope Protection Act and properties within the vicinity of such property.
	In the event that the Building Official establishes a Structural Advisory Committee, and such Committee determines that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed design and construction would result in unsafe conditions or would increase the likelihood of hillside instability, and such unsafe conditions or instability cannot be mitigated to the satisfaction of the Committee, the Building Official shall deny the permit. The Building Official's decision to deny the permit is appealable only to the Board of Appeals.
106A.4.1.4.6  Regulations to implement the Slope Protection Act. The Building Official is hereby authorized to adopt rules, regulations, administrative bulletins, or other written guidelines to assist the Department in implementing this Section, including, but not limited to, requirements for applicants to demonstrate that a project site is not subject to the Slope Protection Act.
106A.4.2  Retention of approved construction documents. One set of approved construction documents shall be provided to the party obtaining the permit. The owner shall be responsible for keeping these documents on the building site at all times and making them available for inspection and use by the inspector during such construction until final inspection has been made; failure to do so shall result in stoppage of work. The approved construction documents shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization from the Building Official; all work shall be done in accordance with these documents.
	One set of approved construction documents for all building permits shall be retained by the Department in reproducible form as public records.
106A.4.3  Validity of permit. The issuance of a permit or approval of plans and specifications shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other applicable laws and regulations. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.
	The issuance of a permit based on plans, specifications and other data shall not prevent the Building Official from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in said plans, specifications and other data, or from preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this code or other applicable laws and regulations.
106A.4.4  Permit expiration. Every permit issued by the Building Official under the provisions of this code, unless an extension of time has been specifically approved by the Building Official, shall expire by limitation and become null and void when the time allowed in Table B is reached, or when any of the following circumstances is applicable:
	1.	For Building Official-initiated code compliance permits, the work shall start within 30 days from the date of such permit.
	2.	If the building or work authorized is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work has started, for a period as follows:
		2.1.	Thirty days for Building Official- initiated code compliance permits.
		2.2.	One-hundred-eighty days for all other permits.
	3.	An extension of time from the stated periods may be permitted for good reason, provided such requests for an extension are submitted to the Building Official in writing prior to the end of the time period accompanied by payment of a fee. Unless approved by the Building Official, no more than one extension of time may be granted.
		3.1.	For all other permits, see Table B – Maximum Time Allowed to Complete All Work Authorized by Building Permit. The maximum time allowed for Building Official-initiated code compliance permits shall be 12 months for all permits exceeding $25,000 total valuation.
	4.	A demolition permit shall expire 180 days after issuance. Only one extension of time of 180 days shall be granted upon written request to the Building Official, accompanied by payment of a fee. If there is a permit for a replacement structure, the demolition permit shall expire concurrently with the permit for that replacement structure.
	5.	The Building Official may administratively authorize the processing of applications involving compliance actions initiated by the Department, in a manner other than set forth in this code, so as to effect said compliance most expeditiously; provided, however, that due process is assured all applicants. In this regard, the Building Official may reduce the time periods set forth in this section as they apply to a second application and permit required by the Building Official to effect full compliance with this code and other applicable laws and 
regulations if by doing so code compliance would be more expeditiously accomplished.
	EXCEPTION: In order to avoid repetitive filings and processing of applications to effect code compliance, the Building Official is hereby authorized to establish alternate procedures and extensions of time from cancellation pursuant to Section 106A.4.1 and from expiration pursuant to this section; provided, however, that the Building Official, in establishing alternate procedures and extension of time, shall proceed as expeditiously as possible toward abatement of the violations.
	When a permit is issued but delayed due to actions before the Board of Appeals or other City agencies, or cases in any court of competent jurisdiction, or is under review by a State or regional regulatory body, the time allowable shall be computed from the date of the final action of the agency or court of jurisdiction.
TABLE B – MAXIMUM TIME ALLOWED TO COMPLETE ALL WORK AUTHORIZED BY BUILDING PERMIT
ValuationTime Allowed (1)Extension Limitation$1.00 to $100,000360 days360 days$100,001 to $2,499,9991,080 days720 days$2,500,000 and above1,440 days720 days
NOTES:
(1)	For site permits with a valuation of $2,500,000 or more, the time allowed to complete work authorized by the building permit may be increased by 50 percent. For site permits with a valuation less than $2,500,000, use Table B.
106A.4.4.1  Commencement of work on permit expired due to work not started. Before work can be commenced on an expired permit on which no work was performed, a new application shall be filed and a new permit shall be obtained. If not more than one year has elapsed since the expiration of the original permit, the applicant is eligible for reduced fee on the new permit. See Section 110A- Table 1A-B — Commencement of Work Not Started. All other applicable fees in Section 110A - Table 1A-A or any other table in this code, shall be collected in the full amount. To qualify for the reduced fees, the original approved plans and specifications in the possession of the owner shall be submitted with the new application, together with a notarized certification that there are no changes made on those plans and specifications.
	In the event a refund has been granted upon the request of the applicant prior to the commencement of the work, the provisions of this section shall not apply and a new permit shall be applied for and all fees will be required to be paid.
106A.4.4.2  Recommencement of work on permit expired due to work not completed. An alteration permit shall be secured for the work not completed. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F — Specialty Permit Fees — for applicable fee to defray cost of certifying site conditions. The permit fee shall be based upon the valuation of the uncompleted work. When the permit is for completing the work as shown on the original approved plans, no additional plan review fee shall be required.
106A.4.5  Suspension or revocation. The building official may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code whenever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation of any of the provisions of this code.
	Any permit issued for which less than the correct permit and plan checking fees were paid shall be considered an invalid permit and shall be suspended until the complete bill of fees has been paid. Failure to pay the correct fees shall be sufficient grounds for denial of a temporary permit of occupancy or a permit of occupancy.
106A.4.6  Notice of permit issuance. Within 24 hours after the issuance of a building permit authorizing the types of work described below, notice of such issuance shall be given in the manner set forth below.
	1.	For permits to demolish or erect a building or structure, or to move a structure to a new site, the permittee shall obtain from the Department a sign containing the following information: permit number; filing date; address and phone number of the agency to contact for information regarding permit issuance; the date of permit issuance; address and phone of agency to contact to appeal issuance of permit; name, address and phone number of permittee.
	For unreinforced masonry buildings, additional information shall be provided, as required by the Building Official.
	See Section 110A, Table 1A-L – Public Information – for applicable fee.
	The permittee shall cause the sign to be erected on the site of the property to which the application applies.
	Location of sign. The sign shall be clearly visible to passing motorists and passing pedestrians. In the case of moved buildings, the sign shall be posted at the site onto which the building is to be moved. The minimum dimensions shall be 30 inches by 30 inches (762 mm × 762 mm), unless the permit relates to a vacant site or a vacant building, in which case the Building Official may require a sign up to 8 feet (2.438 m) wide and 4 feet (1.219 m) high upon a determination that the larger sign will provide better public notice. If a larger sign is required, the permittee shall provide it, and it shall contain the information set forth above. The sign required herein shall be installed as follows: The bottom edge of the sign shall be at least 6 feet (1.829 m) above grade; the face of the sign shall be parallel to the main street frontage and shall be located 5 feet (1.524 m) or less from the street property line; the sign shall be attached to one or more posts substantially embedded into the ground in order to withstand wind or other load factors, or may be attached to an existing front building wall. The background color of the sign shall be white, and the color of the text shall be black; the letter size of the first line shall be a minimum of 8 inches (203.2 mm) high; the size and style of the text shall be such that the message is clear and legible from a distance of 10 feet (3.048 m) to a viewer with normal vision.
	Duration of sign posting. The permittee shall cause the sign to be erected within 24 hours after a permit is issued. The sign shall remain posted until either the conclusion of the hearing on the permit before the Board of Appeals or the time for filing such appeal has lapsed without an appeal being filed. Work under a demolition permit shall not begin until 15 days after the date on which the permit is issued.
	Revocation for noncompliance. The Building Official shall, after providing the permittee an opportunity to respond to any complaint of noncompliance, revoke any permit where the applicant has not substantially complied with the provisions of this section or Section 106A.3.2.3 requiring notice of permit application and issuance.
	The requirements contained in this code relating to notice are not intended to give any right to any person to challenge in any administrative or judicial proceeding any action for which notice is given if such person would not otherwise have the legal right to do so.
	2.	For a permit which would authorize a structural addition to an existing building, the Department shall mail written notice to the owners of properties immediately adjacent to the subject building as shown on the current tax roll. See Section 110A, Table 1A-L – Public Information – for applicable fee.
	3.	For a permit which would authorize the demolition or moving of a building or structure, written notice shall be mailed to the owners of properties within 300 feet (91.44 m) in every direction from the edge of the property on which the proposed demolition work will take place, or from which the building will be moved. Owners notified shall be as shown on the last annual tax roll. Notice to interested organizations or groups shall be made as provided in Section 106A.4 of this code.
	4.	For changes in occupancy per this code, notice shall be provided as specified in Section 6 of the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code. See Section 110A, Table 1A-L – Public Information – for applicable fee.
106A.4.7  Additional work, permit required. When an approved permit has been issued, a separate permit for alteration work shall be required for any change in work or additional work as set forth hereafter. The fees for such additional work shall be as set forth in Section 110A, fee tables, based on the difference in the valuation between the changed work and that of the original permit. The valuation shall be not less than $1. Situations which require a separate permit include the following:
	1.	Construction differing from the approved construction documents sufficiently to require revised plans or additional plans to be submitted to the Department for approval, including changes in partition layout that impact other code requirements, changes in framing directions, spans, and locations of concentrated loads, and changes in types of materials used. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – for the assessment for this type of additional work.
	2.	Changes proposed to any building or structure which alter the exterior dimensions more than 6 inches (152.4 mm) either in vertical or horizontal dimension, alter the visual appearance through changes in exterior wall materials or windows, change the number of residential dwelling units or decrease the amount of off-street parking provided.
	3.	Value of additional work or of changes exceeding 10 percent of the valuation of the approved permit work or $50,000 whichever is the lesser amount.
	4.	A change in occupancy or use, as defined in this code.
	5.	A change in the construction type of any portion of the building.
	6.	An unusual condition requiring a permit procedure to protect the interest of the public.
	A separate alteration permit shall not be required where the change or additional work is required by the Board of Appeals as a condition of approving an appealed permit; however, revised plans and plan review fees, including back check fees, shall be required for any such change or additional work. The Board of Appeals may require, as a condition of approval, that revised plans be submitted to the Board for review.
106A.4.8  Replacement of approved construction documents. When the permit holder's set of approved construction documents is not available as required by Section 106A.4.2, a duplicate set of documents shall be submitted to the Department along with a notarized certification that such documents are identical to the approved construction documents except for notations by City agencies. The Department shall then copy such notations from its retained set to the duplicate set and shall stamp the duplicate set APPROVED.
	See Section 110A, Table 1A-L – Public Information – for applicable fee.
106A.4.9  Preapplication plan review or inspection. When a party wishes to discuss specific design issues or submit preliminary designs for review and comment by the Department prior to formal application for a permit, a request for preapplication plan review must be submitted in writing to the Building Official. See Section 110A, Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees – for applicable fees. Payment of the minimum fee must be submitted with the letter of request.
	In cases where on-site discussion with a field inspector is desired, the same request requirements apply. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – for applicable fee.
106A.4.10  Review of mechanical plans. When an application for a permit contains a mechanical component (separate from or in addition to energy conservation design) sufficient in scope or complexity to require review by a mechanical specialist, a fee for this service shall be assessed and is payable before issuance of the permit. See Section 110A, Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees – for applicable fee.
106A.4.11  Review of electrical plans. When an application for a permit contains an electrical component (separate from or in addition to energy conservation design) sufficient in scope or complexity to require review by an electrical specialist, a fee for this service shall be assessed and is payable before issuance of the permit. See Section 110A, Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees – for applicable fee.
106A.4.12  Review of plumbing plans. When an application for a permit contains a plumbing component sufficient in scope or complexity to require review by a plumbing plan reviewer, a fee for this service shall be assessed and is payable before issuance of the permit. See Section 110A, Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees – for applicable fee.
106A.4.13  Premium plan review. At the request of the applicant and upon payment of an additional fee per Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit Application and Plan Review Fees, building permit applications shall be reviewed by the Department of Building Inspection within a guaranteed plan review time set by the Building Official. This building plan review time will be less than normal turnaround times and will be developed on a case-by-case basis depending on the scope of work and the quality of completeness of the submittal documents. At or before the due date of the guaranteed building plan review time, a thorough set of plan review comments and/or corrections will be sent to the applicant for response. Premium Plan Review does not guarantee plan review times during the recheck process, nor building permit approval and issuance. If the Department fails to complete its plan review within the guaranteed plan review time, the additional fee paid shall be refunded to the applicant upon written request by the applicant. This service is offered for plan review by the Department of Building Inspection only and does not commit any other City agencies or departments to the turnaround times.
SECTION 107A – FEES
107A.1  General. Fees shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of this section or shall be as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the jurisdiction.
107A.1.2  Exemption from fees. The fees provided for in this chapter shall not apply to permits issued to perform work on buildings which are owned and occupied by the Federal or State governments. The San Francisco Housing Authority shall be exempt from all permit fees in this chapter except State mandated fees and record retention fees. Permits required under this code for buildings and sites owned or leased by the City and County of San Francisco shall be subject to all fees set forth in this chapter.
107A.2  Permit Issuance Fees. The minimum permit fee per Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees – shall be paid at the time an application for a building permit is issued. The New Construction Permit Fee Schedule applies to new buildings or structures. The Alteration Permit Fee Schedule applies to alterations, repairs, additions or other work on an existing building or structure, or to the modification of the scope of an approved permit as required by Section 106A.4.7.
	The determination of value or valuation under any of the provisions of this code shall be made by the Building Official. The value to be used in computing the permit issuance and plan review fees shall be the final valuation upon completion of all construction work for which the permit is issued, as well as all finish work, painting, roofing, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing systems and all other permanently installed equipment and construction, even though other permits to perform such work may be required.
	The valuation shall be calculated at the time of permit issuance according to a cost schedule posted in the office of the Department or by actual construction cost, whichever is greater. The valuation shall be recalculated at the time of any addenda and/or revision issuance. Any additional fees due resulting from the recalculation of valuation shall be paid prior to addenda and/or revision issuance. The cost schedule shall be adjusted annually based on construction cost data reported by Marshall and Swift, Valuation Engineers. Contractor overhead and profit shall be reflected in the schedule. The Building Inspection Commission is authorized to waive the annual cost schedule adjustment if it determines that increasing the fees will exceed the cost of providing the services for which the fees are paid.
107A.3  Plan review fees.
	(a)	When submittal documents are required by Section 106A.3.2, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a permit for which plans are required pursuant to Section 106A.3.2. Said plan review fee shall be based on the valuation determined by Section 107A.1. See Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees – for applicable fee.
	The plan review fees specified in this section are separate fees from the permit issuance fees specified in Section 107A.2 and are in addition to the permit fees.
	When submittal documents are incomplete or changed so as to require additional plan review or when the project involves deferred submittal items as defined in Section 106A.3.4.2, an additional plan review fee shall be charged as shown in Section 110A, Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees.
	(b)	If a project involves voluntary seismic retrofit upgrades to soft-story, wood-frame buildings, as defined by the Building Official, the applicant for said project shall be exempt from the proportionate share of plan review fees specified under this Chapter that is related to such retrofit work, provided all permit conditions and timelines are met.
107A.3.1  Reduced plan review fee. A reduced plan review fee shall be collected for reviewing submittal documents identical to those filed within one year of the original approved construction documents for which the full plan review fee was paid. For this purpose, plans may be considered identical when they contain only such minor differences as exterior finishes, or if they are identical but opposite hand. See Section 110A, Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees – for the second and each subsequent set of identical submittal documents within the stated time period. To obtain this reduction, the applicant shall submit a copy of the original approved construction documents for which the full plan review fee was paid.
	When the submittal documents are substantially changed from those that were previously approved, an additional full plan review fee shall be charged. See Section 110A, Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees – for applicable fee.
107A.3.2  Tenant improvement work. An application for tenant improvement work shall state at the time of filing whether the permit is to include the partition and other improvement work for the entire building. If this work is not to be included, the valuation shall be reduced accordingly. The installation of such work shall then require permits for alteration work, the fees for which shall be in accordance with Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees.
107A.3.3  Improvement work. When the application is for first-time improvement work in a new building and the valuation of such work was included in the valuation of the original building permit, the valuation for each alteration permit for part or all of such work shall be shown as $500, and the permit fee shall be collected accordingly.
107A.3.4  Site permit and addenda fees. The permit fee for projects submitted under the site permit and addenda process shall be based on Section 110A, Table 1A-A  – Building Permit Fees and additional fees as stated in Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees. Twenty-five percent of the plan review fee shall be paid at the time of site permit application submittal, and shall be credited toward the final plan review fee payment at the time of the first construction addendum submittal as determined by the Building Official. One hundred percent of the permit issuance fee shall be paid at the time of the first construction addendum issuance as determined by the Building Official.
107A.4  Expiration of Plan Review. (See Section 106A.3.7.)
107A.5  Investigation Fees: Work Without a Permit. Whenever any work, for which a permit is required under the provisions of this code, has been started without a permit and where no specific additional fees are imposed as penalties as provided in this chapter, a special investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work. See Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – for applicable fee. Where only a portion of the work has been commenced without a permit, the investigation fee shall be based upon the portion of the work done without a permit. The cost of any penalty for any work done, in conjunction with the investigation fee, shall be borne by the owner.
	The owner or owner's agent may appeal the amount of the investigation fee if they can provide just cause, such as unfamiliarity with this code or demonstrable negligence on the part of one of their employees.
	The Building Official may reduce the investigation fee to two times the amount of the permit fee as called for in Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees – of this code for work that was constructed prior to the current building ownership, provided that substantiating documentation is provided.
	Where the Building Official rules against the applicant, appeals of such investigation fee shall be filed with the Board of Appeals in the manner provided in Part III of the San Francisco Municipal Code. Such filing shall be subject to the fees and rules of the Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals, in re-viewing the appeal of the investigation fee assessed for doing work without a permit, may reduce the amount of said fee, but in no case shall such reduced investigation fee be less than two times the amount of the permit fee as called for in Section 110A, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees – of this code.
107A.6  Fee Refunds. When no work has been done and the project has been abandoned or the permit expired per Section 106A.4.4, by limitation, a portion of the building issuance fee paid shall be refunded upon written request of the owner when such request is made within six months of permit expiration. See Section 110A, Table 1A-R – Refunds – for applicable refund.
107A.6.1  Plan review fees. When an application is withdrawn, the plan review fee paid may be partially refunded upon written request in the case no site inspection had been made by Department personnel, and plan review had not started within any division of the Department. See Section 110A, Table 1A-R – Refunds – for applicable refund. For other cases, the amount of refund, if any, shall be determined by the Building Official, based on the amount of permit processing work already completed on the application at the time it was withdrawn. Requests for refunds must be made within 30 days of withdrawal by the applicant to the Building Official.
107A.6.2  Fees in error. If the Building Official determines that an error has been made in the assessment of fees, a refund for the portion determined to be in error may be made upon written request by the applicant. See Section 110A, Table 1A-R – Refunds – for applicable refund.
107A.7  Strong Motion Instrumentation Program Fee. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2705 of the Public Resources Code of the State of California, a fee shall be assessed for all building permits except demolitions. See Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – for applicable fee. All such fees collected shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of Section 2706 of said Public Resources Code.
107A.7.1  Strong Motion Revolving Fund. That portion of the strong motion instrumentation fee retained by the Department as provided for in Section 2705 of the Public Resources Code of the State of California shall be deposited into a special Strong Motion Revolving Fund established by the City Controller. Funds from this revolving fund shall be used, subject to the approval of the Building Official and the Building Inspection Commission, to defray personnel and equipment costs incurred in carrying out the State mandate. The Strong Motion Revolving Fund shall continue from year to year, and shall not be included in the Cash Reserve Fund.
107A.7.2  California Building Standards Commission Administration Fee. Pursuant to the provisions of California Health and Safety Code Sections 18930.5, 18931.6, 18931.7 and 18938.39 relating to building materials, cities and counties are required to assess a fee for all building permits. See Section 110A, Table 1A-J for applicable fee. All such fees shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of Section 18931.7 of said Health and Safety Code.
107A.7.2A  California Building Standards Commission Fund. That portion of the fee assessed pursuant to Section 107A.7.2 relating to building materials that is retained by the Department of Building Inspection shall be deposited into the California Building Standards Commission Fund established by the City Controller. Funds from this category 2 fund shall be used, subject to the approval of the Building Official and the Building Inspection Commission, for administrative costs and code enforcement education, including but not limited to, certification in the voluntary construction inspector certification program. The California Building Standards Commission Fund shall continue from year to year and shall not be included in the Cash Reserve Fund.
107A.7.3  Technology surcharge on permits. A technology surcharge is hereby established on the cost of permit applications that the Department of Building Inspection processes for all departments and bureaus of the City and County of San Francisco. The surcharge proceeds are to be used solely for the implementation and maintenance of the City-wide Permit and Project Tracking System. The funds shall continue from year to year and shall not be included in the Cash Reserve Fund. See Section 110A, Table 1A-J for the applicable surcharge.
107A.8  Delinquent fees/dishonored checks. Permits will not be issued to any person having outstanding or delinquent balances or dishonored checks on file with the Department of Building Inspection.
107A.9  Survey. A building survey may be requested when a building inspector's assistance is desired to establish code compliance of existing or proposed construction. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – for applicable fees.
107A.10  Building Numbers and Fees. Every person shall obtain an official street number assignment at the time the person files a permit application or establishes a new parcel and shall place the numbers so assigned on the building in such a position that the number is easily visible to approaching emergency vehicles. The numerals shall not be less than 4 inches (101.6 mm) in height with a minimum stroke width of 1/2 inch (12.7mm) [Reference CRC R319.1] and shall be a contrasting color to the background. All numbers must be made of substantial and permanent material and must be so affixed as not to be easily effaced or removed. Any additional or changed numbers assigned to a building shall be subject to the provisions of this section. See Section 110A, Table 1A-J – Miscellaneous Fees – for applicable fee.
107A.11  Fees for Reproduction of Reports, Records and Documents for the Public.
107A.11.1  General. In order to provide for the cost of reproducing inspection reports, records, documents and other material in the Department files for the public, including but not limited to records on microfilm, a fee shall be required, payable in advance. Fees shall be chargeable to all persons, as well as City departments; when such reproduction is in response to subpoenas of records, the attorney requesting such records shall pay the fees. All fees collected shall be deposited into the Building Inspection Fund.
107A.11.2  Reproduction fees. The fees shall be determined based upon the number of pages, type of record, size of microfilm reproduced and the number of copies required. All costs of reproduction shall require the pickup of said reproduced material at the office of the Department unless costs of delivery are provided. The Building Official may make any other rules or regulations necessary to provide for the reproduction of material consistent with the intent of this section. See Section 110A, Table 1A-L – Electrostatic Reproduction – for applicable fees.
107A.12  Fees for Services and Regulatory Functions of the Department. Fees for all services and regulatory functions of the Department as established in various chapters of the San Francisco Municipal Code shall be imposed pursuant to Section 110A et seq.
107A.13  Development Impact and In-lieu Fees.
107A.13.1  Definitions. 
	(a)	The following definitions shall govern interpretation of this Section:
		(1)	"City" shall mean the City and County of San Francisco.
		(2)	"Department" shall mean the Department of Building Inspection.
		(3)	"Development fee" shall mean either a development impact fee or an in-lieu fee. It shall not include a fee for service or any time and material charges charged for reviewing or processing permit applications.
		(4)	"Development impact fee" shall mean a fee imposed on a development project as a condition of approval by the various departments and agencies of the City and levies against development projects by the San Francisco Unified School District under Section 17620 of the California Education Code and other provisions of State law to mitigate the impacts of increased demand for public services. facilities or housing caused by the development project that may or may not be an impact fee governed by the California Mitigation Fee Act (California Government Code Section 66000 et seq.)
		(5)	"Development impact requirement" shall mean a requirement to provide physical improvements, facilities or below market rate housing units imposed on a development project as a condition of approval to mitigate the impacts of increased demand for public services, facilities or housing caused by the development project that may or may not be governed by the California Mitigation Fee Act (California Government Code Section 66000 et seq.).
		(6)	"Development project" shall mean a project that is subject to a development impact or in-lieu fee or development impact requirement.
		(7)	"First certificate of occupancy" shall mean either a temporary certificate of occupancy or a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy as defined in San Francisco Building Code Section 109A, whichever is issued first.
		(8)	"First construction document" shall mean the first building permit issued for a development project or, in the case of a site permit, the first building permit addendum issued or other document that authorizes construction of the development project. Construction document shall not include permits or addenda for demolition, grading, shoring, pile driving, or site preparation work.
		(9)	"In-lieu fee" is a fee paid by the project sponsor in lieu of complying with a City requirement that is not a development impact fee within the meaning of the Mitigation Fee Act.
		(10)	"Neighborhood Infrastructure Seed Fund" shall mean the fund or funds established by the Controller's Office for the purpose of collecting the 20 percent pre-paid portion of the development fees intended to fund pre-development work on any neighborhood infrastructure project funded by any of the six neighborhood infrastructure impact development fees listed in Subsection 107A.13.13.1. In addition, third-party grant monies or loans may also be deposited into this fund for the purpose of funding pre-development or capital expenses to accelerate the construction start times of any neighborhood infrastructure project funded by any of the six neighborhood infrastructure impact development fees listed in Subsection 107A.13.13.1.
		(11)	"Project sponsor" or "sponsor" shall mean an applicant seeking approval for construction of a development project subject to this Section, such applicant's successor and assigns, and/or any entity which controls or is under common control with such applicant.
		(12)	"Unit" shall mean the Department's Development Fee Collection Unit.
107A.13.2  Collection by Department. The Department shall be responsible for collecting all development impact and in-lieu fees, including (a) fees levied by the San Francisco Unified School District if the District authorizes collection by the Department, and (b) fees levied by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, if the Commission's General Manager authorizes collection by the Department, deferral of payment of any development fee, and/or resolution of any development fee dispute or appeal in accordance with this Section 107A.13.
107A.13.3  Timing of development fee payments and satisfaction of development impact requirements.
	(a)	All development impact or in-lieu fees owed for a development project shall be paid by the protect sponsor prior to issuance of the first construction document; provided, however, that the project sponsor may elect to defer payment of said fees under Section 107A.13.3.1.
	(b)	Any development impact requirement shall be completed prior to issuance of the first certificate of occupancy for the development project.
107A.13.3.1   Fee deferral program; development fee deferral surcharge. A project sponsor may elect to defer payment of any development impact or in-lieu fee collected by the Department to a due date prior to issuance by the Department of the first certificate of occupancy; provided, however, that the project sponsor shall pay 15 percent of the total amount of the development fees owed prior to issuance of the first construction document. If a project is subject to one of the six neighborhood infrastructure impact development fees listed in Subsection 107A.13.3. 1.1, the project sponsor shall pay 20 percent of the total amount of the development fees owed prior to issuance of the first construction document. These pre-paid funds shall be deposited as provided in Subsection 107A.13.3.1. 1 below. A project sponsor that received project approval prior to July 1, 2010 and has not yet paid a development impact or in-lieu fee may elect to defer payment under the provisions of this Section notwithstanding a condition of approval that required the fee to be paid prior to issuance of a building or site permit.
	This option to defer payment may be exercised by (1) submitting a deferral request to the Department on a form provided by the Department prior to issuance of the first construction document, and (2) agreeing to pay a Development Fee Deferral Surcharge. This deferral option shall not be available to a project sponsor who paid the fee prior to the operative date of July 1, 2010; the project sponsor's reapplication for a building or site permit after expiration of the original permit and refund of the development fees paid shall not authorize the project sponsor to elect the deferral option. The deferral option shall expire on July 1, 2013 unless the Board of Supervisors extends it.
107A.13.3.1.1  Deposit of pre-paid portion of deferred development fees. If a development project is not subject to one of the six neighborhood infrastructure impact fees listed below, the pre-paid portion of the development fees shall be deposited into the appropriate fee account. If there is more than one fee account, the pre-paid portion of the fees shall be apportioned equally.
	If a development project is subject to one of the six neighborhood infrastructure impact development fees listed below, the entire 20 percent development fee pre-payment shall be deposited in the appropriate neighborhood infrastructure impact fee account. These pre-paid funds shall be dedicated solely to replenishing the Neighborhood Infrastructure Seed Fund for that specific neighborhood infrastructure impact fee account. In no event shall a neighborhood infrastructure impact fee specific to one Area Plan be mixed with neighborhood infrastructure impact fees specific to a different Area Plan. lf the 20 percent development fee pre-payment exceeds the total amount owed for the neighborhood infrastructure impact fee account, the remaining pre-paid portion of the 20 percent development fee pre-payment shall be apportioned equally among the remaining applicable development fees.
	The neighborhood infrastructure development fees subject to the 20 percent pre-payment provision of this Subsection 107A.13.3.1.1 are as follows: (1) the Rincon Hill Community Infrastructure Impact Fee, as set forth in Planning Code Section 418.3(b)(1); (2) the Visitacion Valley Community Facilities and Infrastructure Fee, as set forth in Planning Code Section 420.3(b); (3) the Market and Octavia Community Infrastructure Fee, as set forth in Planning Code Section 421.3(b); (4) the Balboa Park Community Infrastructure Impact Fee, as set forth in Planning Code Section 422.3(b); (5) the Eastern Neighborhoods Infrastructure Impact Fee, as set forth in Planning Code Section 423.3(b); and (6) the Van Ness and Market Neighborhood Infrastructure Impact Fee, as set forth in Planning Code Section 424.3(b)(ii).
107A.13.3.2  Payment of development fees; payment and calculation of Development Fee Deferral Surcharge. Except for any pre-paid fees, all deferred development fees remaining unpaid shall be paid in full prior to issuance of the first certificate of occupancy at the end of the deferral period. The Development Fee Deferral Surcharge shall be paid when the deferred fees are paid and shall accrue at the Development Fee Deferral Surcharge Rate.
	The Development Fee Deferral Surcharge Rate shall be calculated monthly by the Unit as a blended interest rate comprised of 50% of the Treasurer's yield on a standard two-year investment and 50% of the latest updated Monthly Earned Income Yield Rate for the City and County of San Francisco's Pooled Funds, as posted on the San Francisco Treasurer's website and 50% of the Annual Infrastructure Construction Cost Inflation Estimate published by the Office of the City Administrator's Capital Planning Group and approved by the City's Capital Planning Committee consistent with its obligations under Section 409(b) of the San Francisco Planning Code. The annual Infrastructure Construction Cost Inflation Estimate shall be updated by the Office of the City Administrator's Capital Planning Group on an annual basis, in consultation with the Capital Planning Committee, with the goal of establishing a reasonable estimate of construction cost inflation for the next calendar year for a mix of public infrastructure and facilities in San Francisco. The Capital Planning Group may rely on past construction cost inflation data, market trends, and a variety of national, state and local commercial and institutional construction cost inflation indices in developing their annual estimates for San Francisco. Commencing on the effective date of this ordinance, the Unit shall publish the Development Fee Deferral Surcharge on the Department of Building Inspection website at or near the beginning of each month. The accrual of any deferred development fees begins on the first day that a project sponsor elects to defer development fees, but never later than immediately after issuance of the first construction document. The Development Fee Collection Unit shall calculate the final Development Fee Deferral Surcharge for individual projects by multiplying the total development fees otherwise due prior to issuance of the construction document by the Development Fee Deferral Surcharge Rate by the actual day count of the entire Development Fee Deferral Period, which shall be the number of days between the project sponsor's election to defer to final payment of the deferred development fees. The Development Fee Deferral Surcharge shall be apportioned among all development fee funds according to the ratio of each development fee as a percentage of the total development fees owed on the specific project.
107A.13.4  Development Fee Collection Unit. There shall be a Development Fee Collection Unit established within the Department. The Unit's duties include: (1) receiving and organizing information from various City agencies concerning the amount of development fees owed or specific development impact requirements imposed under various sections of the San Francisco Municipal Code or other legal authority, (2) working with the project sponsor and relevant agencies to resolve any disputes or questions concerning the development fees or development impact requirements applied to specific development projects, (3) ensuring that the first construction document, or first certificate of occupancy if the project sponsor elects to defer payment, is not issued prior to payment of all development fees that are due and owing, (4) confirming with the Planning Department that any outstanding development impact requirements are satisfied prior to issuance of the first certificate of occupancy for projects subject to such requirements, (5) generating Project Development Fee Reports, (6) processing any development fee refunds, (7) publishing and updating the Citywide Development Fee Register, (8) initiating lien proceedings to collect any unpaid development impact or in-lieu fees, and (9) performing such other duties as the Building Official requires. The fee for the Department's services shall be as provided in Section 107A.13.14.
107A.13.5  Citywide Development Fee Register. The Unit shall publish a Citywide Development Fee Register that lists all current San Francisco development impact and in-lieu fees. The Unit shall update the Register whenever a development impact or in-lieu fee is newly enacted, rescinded or amended. The Unit shall make the Register available to the public upon request, including but not limited to posting it on the Department's website.
107A.13.6  Required city agency or department notice to Development Fee Collection Unit. Prior to issuance of any building or site permit for a project, any department or agency responsible for calculating a development fee collected by the Unit or imposing a development impact requirement shall send written or electronic notification to the Development Fee Collection Unit that (i) identifies the development project, (ii) lists which specific development fees and/or development impact requirements are applicable and the legal authorization for their application. (iii) specifies the amount of the development fee or fees that the department or agency calculates is owed to the City or that the project sponsor has elected to satisfy a development impact requirement through the direct provision of public benefits, and (iv) lists the name and contact information for the staff person at each agency or department responsible for calculating the development fee or monitoring the development impact requirement.
107A.13.7  Project Development Fee Report. Prior to the issuance of the building or site permit for a development project that owes a development fee or fees or is subject to development impact requirements, and at any time thereafter, the Development Fee Collection Unit shall prepare and provide to the project sponsor, or any member of the public upon request, a Project Development Fee Report. The Report shall: (i) identify the development project, (ii) list which specific development fees and/or development impact requirements are applicable and the legal authorization for their application, (iii) specify the amount of the development fee or fees that the department or agency calculates is owed or that the project sponsor has elected to satisfy a development impact requirement through the direct provision of physical improvements, (iv) list the name and contact information for the staff person at each agency or department responsible for calculating the development fee or monitoring the development impact requirement, and (v) state whether the development fee or fees are due and payable prior to issuance of the first construction document or whether the project sponsor has requested deferral under Section 107A.13.3.1, and note the status of payment. A copy of the Project Development Fee Report shall always be made available to the project sponsor immediately prior to issuance of the site or building permit for a development project subject to any development fee or fees to provide adequate notice of the proposed development fee or fees. The Development Fee Collection Unit shall not issue a Final Development Fee Report and the respective site or building permit for a development project until it has received written confirmation from the First Source Hiring Administration (FHSA) that the project sponsor has executed a first source hiring agreement(s) with the FHSA consistent with Administrative Code Section 83.11.
107A.13.8  Failure to give notice of a development fee owed or development impact requirement. The failure of the Unit or a fee-assessing department or agency to give any notice of a development fee owed or development impact requirement shall not relieve the project sponsor of the obligation to pay the development fee when it is due. The procedure set forth in this Section is not intended to preclude enforcement of the development fee or development impact requirements pursuant to any other section of this Code, the Planning Code or other parts of the Municipal Code or under the laws of the State of California.
107A.13.9  Development fee dispute resolution; appeal to Board of Appeals.
107A.13.9.1  Procedure for resolution by Development Fee Collection Unit. If a dispute or question arises concerning the accuracy of the final Project Development Fee Report, including the mathematical calculation of any development fee listed thereon, the Development Fee Collection Unit shall attempt to resolve it in consultation with the department or agency affected by the disputed fee and the project sponsor. A person protesting the accuracy of the Report must submit the issue or issues in writing to the Unit with a copy to the department or agency whose development fee is in dispute. Any public notice of the issuance of the building or site permit shall notify the public of the right to request a copy of the Project Development Fee Report and of/he right of appeal to the Board of Appeals under Section 107A.13.9.2.
107A.13.9.2  Appeal to Board of Appeals.
	(a)	If the Development Fee Collection Unit is unable to resolve the dispute or question, the project sponsor or a member of the public may appeal the Project Development Fee Report to the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the issuance of the building or site permit under Article 8 et seq. of the San Francisco Business & Tax Regulations Code.
	(b)	In cases where a project sponsor is not using the site permit process and is required to pay a development fee or fees prior to issuance of the development project's building permit, and chooses not to defer payment under Section 107A.13.3.1, the sponsor may pay a disputed fee under protest and file an appeal within 15 days of the issuance of the permit.
	(c)	In order to appeal to the Board of Appeals under this Section, a project sponsor appellant must first have attempted to resolve the dispute or question by following the procedure in Section 107A.13.9.1. Evidence of this prior attempt must be submitted to the Board of Appeals in order for the Board to accept the appeal. Members of the public may file an appeal under this Section without providing such evidence.
	(d)	Promptly after an appeal has been filed, the Board of Appeals shall notify the department or agency whose development fee or development impact requirement is at issue of the fact that an appeal has been filed and the date scheduled for hearing. A representative of the Department of Building Inspection and of the department or agency whose development fee or development impact requirement is in dispute must be present at the appeal hearing.
	(e)	In hearing any appeal of the Project Development Fee Report, the Board's jurisdiction is strictly limited to determining whether the mathematical calculation of the development fee or the scope of a development impact requirement is accurate and resolving any technical disputes over the use, occupancy, floor area, unit count and mix, or other objective criteria that calculation of the challenged development fee or development impact requirement is based upon.
	(f)	If a decision by the Board of Appeals requires a refund of all or any portion of the disputed development fee, the refund shall be processed promptly by the Development Fee Collection Unit under Section 107A.13.11. If a decision requires a new determination regarding the scope of a development impact requirement, such new determination shall be made by the relevant City agency or department prior to issuance of the first certificate of occupancy. Where the Board determines that an additional amount of the fee or fees is due and owing, the additional amount shall be paid prior to issuance of the first certificate of occupancy for the development project.
107A.13.10  Violation of this section deemed a violation of the Building Code. In addition to the lien proceedings authorized Section 107A.13.15, a violation of this Section 107A.13 shall be deemed a violation of the Building Code and subject to the provisions of Section 103A and any investigation or other fees authorized under other sections of this Code to compensate the Department for the cost of abating violations.
107A.13.11  Development fee refunds. Upon notification by the property owner or project sponsor and confirmation by the applicable department or agency that a fee refund is due, the Unit shall process the refund. The fee for processing the refund shall be as set forth in Table 1A-D – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees.
107A.13.12  Development fee information a public record. Any notice of development fees due or development impact requirements imposed sent to the Development Collection Unit by any fee- assessing departments and agencies, the Project Development Fee Report issued by the Unit, and any development fee refunds or development impact requirement revisions made are a matter of public record.
107A.13.13  Administrative fee. The fee for services provided by the Department under this Section 107A.13 shall be the standard hourly rate for administration set forth in Table 1A-D of this Code. The administrative fee is payable within 30 days of the Department's notice that payment is due.
107A.13.14  Administrative procedures. The Building Official is empowered to adopt such administrative procedures as he or she deems necessary to implement this Section. Such administrative procedures shall be generally consistent with the procedural requirements set forth in this Section 107A.
107A.13.15  Wrongful issuance of first construction document or certificate of occupancy; assessment lien; notice. In addition to any other remedy established in this Code or under other authority under the laws of the State of California, if DBI inadvertently or mistakenly issues the first construction document or first certificate of occupancy, whichever applies, for a development project that has not paid a development fee that is due and owing and payment has not been received within 30 days following notice that payment is due, or, in the case where a sponsor has elected to satisfy a development impact requirement through direct provision of physical improvements and where non- compliance with any such requirement is not corrected within 30 days following notice, the Department shall initiate proceedings in accordance with Article XX of Chapter 10 of the San Francisco Administrative Code to make the entire unpaid balance of the fee that is due, including interest at the rate of one and one-half percent per month or fraction thereof on the amount of unpaid fee, a lien against all parcels used for the development project. The penalty fee provisions of this section shall also apply to projects that have elected to provide physical improvements in lieu of paying a development fee, as if they had elected to pay the relevant development fee.
	The Department shall send all notices required by Article XX to the owner or owners of the property and to the project sponsor if different from the owner. The Department shall also prepare a preliminary report, and notify the owner and sponsor of a hearing by the Board of Supervisors to confirm such report at least ten days before the date of the hearing. The report shall contain the owner and sponsor's names, a description of the development project, a description of the parcels of real property to be encumbered as set forth in the Assessor's Map Books for the current year, a description of the alleged violation of this Section, and shall fix a time, date, and place for hearing. The Department shall mail this report to the sponsor and each owner of record of the parcels of real property subject to the lien.
	Any notice required to be given to an owner or sponsor shall be sufficiently given or served upon the owner or sponsor for all purposes in this Section if personally served upon the owner or sponsor or if deposited, postage prepaid, in post office letterbox addressed to the owner or sponsor at the official address of the owner or sponsor maintained by the Tax Collector for the mailing of tax bills or, if no such address is available, to the sponsor at the address of the development project, and to the applicant for the site or building permit at the address on the permit application.
	Except for the release of the lien recording fee authorized by Administrative Code Section 10.237, all sums collected by the Tax Collector under this Section shall be held in trust by the Treasurer and deposited in the City's appropriate fee account.
SECTION 108A – INSPECTIONS
108A.1  General. All construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the building official, and all such construction or work shall remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until approved by the building official. In addition, certain types of construction shall have continuous inspection by special inspectors as specified in Section 1701.
	Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.
	It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the building official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
	In the absence of evidence as to the proper location of the lot on which a building is to be erected, for which a building permit has been or may be issued, the Building Official may require the owner to have the lot surveyed and staked by a registered land surveyor, or registered civil engineer, so that the proper location of the building on the lot may be determined. A copy of this survey shall be filed with the application for the permit.
108A.2  Inspection Record Card. Any work requiring a permit shall not begin until the permit holder or the permit holder's agent posts an inspection record "Job Card," on the site. This card shall be issued at the time of permit issuance by the Department. The card must be posted in a conspicuous, readily accessible location to allow inspectors to make necessary entries; it must remain on the job site until a final inspection of all work stated in that permit has been completed. After final inspection, the card may be removed and retained as part of the building owner's record.
108A.3  Inspection Requests. It shall be the duty of the person doing the work authorized by a permit to notify the building official that such work is ready for inspection. The building official may require that every request for inspection be filed at least one working day before such inspection is desired. Such request may be in writing or by telephone at the option of the building official.
	It shall be the duty of the person requesting any inspections required by this code to provide access to and means for inspections of such work.
108A.3.1  Off-hour inspections. Those desiring inspections outside normal business hours (7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays) may avail themselves of this service by prior arrangement and prepayment. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – for applicable fee.
108A.3.2  Permits by other departments. Those applying for permits issued by other City departments which require an inspection, certification or report by the Department as a condition of issuance of said permits shall apply to the Department for said inspection, certification or report and pay a fee at the Department of Building Inspection. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – for applicable fee.
108A.4  Approval Required. No work shall be done on any part of the building or structure beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the Building Official. Such approval shall be given only after an inspection shall have been made of each successive step in the construction as indicated by each of the inspections required in Section 108A.5. Any portions which do not comply with the provisions of this code and with the approved construction documents shall be corrected, and no such portion shall be covered or concealed until approved.
108A.5.  Required Inspections.
108A.5.1  General. The structural framework of any part of any building or structure shall not be covered or concealed without first obtaining the approval of the building official.
	Protection of joints and penetrations in fire-resistive assemblies shall not be concealed from view until inspected and approved.
108A.5.2  Foundation inspection. Inspection shall be made after excavations for footings is complete and any required reinforcing steel is in place. For concrete foundations, any required forms shall be in place prior to inspection. All materials for the foundation shall be on the job site; however, where concrete is ready mixed in accordance with approved nationally recognized standards, the concrete need not be on the job site. Where the foundation is to be constructed of approved treated wood, additional inspections may be required by the building official.
108A.5.3  Concrete slab or under-floor inspection. Inspection shall be made after all in-slab or under- floor reinforcing steel building service equipment, conduit, piping accessories and other ancillary equipment items are installed, before any concrete is placed or floor sheathing installed, including the subfloor.
108A.5.4  Reinforcing steel. Inspection shall be made when reinforcing steel is in place in walls, floor and roof framing and other concrete members, and before any concrete is poured or placed. All reinforcing steel shall be visible for inspection.
108A.5.5  Structural steel. Inspection shall be made when structural steel framework, or any structural steel member of a building, is in place and before being covered or concealed in any manner.
108A.5.6  Frame inspection. Inspection shall be made after the roof, roof deck or sheathing, all framing, fire blocking and bracing are in place and all conduits, plumbing pipes, chimneys and vents to be concealed are complete and the rough electrical, plumbing, and heating wires, conduits, plumbing pipes and ducts are approved.
108A.5.7  Lath or gypsum board inspection. Inspection shall be made after all lathing and gypsum board, interior and exterior, are in place, but before any plastering is applied or before gypsum board joints and fasteners are taped and finished.
108A.5.8  Fire-rated suspended ceilings. Inspection shall be made after the installation of the hangers, lighting fixtures and air diffusers, the protective fixture boxes and main suspended ceiling members and before the ceiling is installed.
108A.5.9  Final inspection. A final inspection shall be made when the construction work has been completed, and the structure is ready for occupancy, but before it is occupied. There shall be a final inspection and approval on all buildings and structures when completed and ready for occupancy or use after plumbing, electrical and special inspection, and any other applicable approvals have been obtained. See Section 109A for certificate of occupancy requirements.
	An exclusive electrical or plumbing final approval shall not be given or posted unless it is ascertained by the Building Official that no building permit is required.
108A.6  Special Inspections. For special inspections, see Chapter 17.
108A.7  Other Inspections. In addition to the called inspections specified above, the building official may make or require other inspections of any construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this code and other laws which are enforced by the code enforcement agency.
108A.7.1  Concealed work. Whenever any work for which called inspections are required is covered or concealed without inspection, or whenever work is performed and concealed without a permit, and in cases where it is necessary to determine if the building or parts thereof are considered unsafe due to any of the conditions as set forth in Section 102A, the Building Official may require that such work be exposed for examination. The work of exposing or recovering or reconstructing such portions of the building or structure shall not entail expense to the City and County of San Francisco or any of its officials or employees, but shall be at the expense of the owner.
108A.8  Reinspection. A reinspection fee shall be assessed for each inspection or reinspection made necessary by any of the following conditions:
	1.	When such portion of work for which inspection is called is not complete.
	2.	When corrections called for are not made.
	3.	When the inspection record "Job Card" is not properly posted on the work site.
	4.	When the approved plans are not readily available to the inspector.
	5.	For failure to provide access on the date for which inspection is requested.
	6.	For deviating from plans requiring the approval of the Building Official.
	The first reinspection for failure to comply with requirements shall not be assessed a reinspection fee. All subsequent reinspections on a job for the same or subsequent errors or omissions shall be charged a reinspection fee.
	Subsequent to inspector determination of reinspection fee requirements, no required or requested inspections shall be made nor shall the job be given a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy or final approval until the required fees are paid at the Central Permit Bureau. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – for applicable fee.
SECTION 109A – CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; AMENDED CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY FOR EXISTING BUILDING
109A.1  Use and Occupancy. No building or structure shall be used or occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a building or structure or portion thereof shall be made until the building official has issued a certificate of final completion and occupancy or an amended certificate of final completion and occupancy therefor as provided herein, or otherwise has been approved for use by the Department of Building Inspection.
	Issuance of a certificate of final completion and occupancy or an amended certificate of final completion and occupancy shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Certificates presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. It shall be the duty of the Police Department, when called upon by the Building Official, to enforce this provision.
109A.2  Change in Occupancy or Use. Changes in the character or use of a building shall not be made except as specified in Section 3408 of this code. A certificate of final completion and occupancy shall be required for changes in use or occupancy as set forth in Section 3408, except for Group R-1 and R-2 Occupancies; Group R-1 and R-2 occupancies shall be subject to the requirements of Sections 109A.7 and 109A.8.
109A.3  Certificate Issued. The Building Official shall issue certificates of final completion And Occupancy for buildings or structures erected or enlarged; for each change in occupancy classification in any building, structure or portion thereof; and for buildings or structures seismically upgraded in accordance with the provisions of this code. An Amended certificate of final completion and occupancy shall be issued for an existing building where there is an increase in the number of legal dwelling units resulting in a change of occupancy. The amended certificate of occupancy shall indicate the date the first certificate of occupancy and any subsequent certificates of occupancy for the building or structure were issued. If there is no original certificate of occupancy, the amended certificate of occupancy shall refer to the date of initial construction on file in the records of the Department. The provisions of this section shall not be available for use in RH-1 or RH-1(D) zoning districts, nor shall it apply to any residential dwelling that is inconsistent with existing law.
	EXCEPTION: For Group R-1 and R-2 Occupancies, see Sections 109A.7 and 109A.8.
109A.4  Temporary Certificate. Temporary certificates of occupancy may be issued if the Building Official finds that no substantial hazard will result from occupancy of any building, or portion thereof, before the same is completed and satisfactory evidence is submitted that the work could not have been completed prior to occupancy. The request for such temporary certificate shall be in writing, and no occupancy of the building shall be made until such certificate is issued. Such temporary certificate shall be valid for a period not to exceed 12 months, unless an extension of time is approved by the Building Official. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – for applicable fee.
109A.5  Posting. No requirements.
109A.6  Revocation. The building official may, in writing, suspend or revoke a certificate of occupancy or an amended certificate of occupancy issued under the provisions of this code whenever the certificate is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or when it is determined that the building or structure or portion thereof is in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this code.
109A.7  Certificate or Amended Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy, Group R-1 and R-2 Occupancy. Before the Department may issue a certificate of final completion and occupancy for a newly-erected building or structure, an amended certificate of final completion and occupancy for an existing building pursuant to Section 109A.3, or Apartment House/Hotel License, a written report of compliance with applicable codes, standards and regulations and any conditions of approval to the building, structure or property shall be obtained from those agencies having jurisdiction. An amended certificate of final completion and occupancy issued for changes to an existing building shall indicate the date the first certificate of occupancy and any subsequent certificates of occupancy for the building or structure were issued. If there is no original certificate of occupancy, the amended certificate of occupancy shall refer to the date of initial construction on file in the records of the Department.
	Where any permit for the building, structure or property was appealed to the Board of Appeals and the Board imposed conditions on appeal, the Department may not issue a certificate of final completion and occupancy, an amended certificate of final completion and occupancy, or apartment house/hotel license until it determines that the conditions have been met. A copy of the certificate of final completion and occupancy or amended certificate of final completion and occupancy shall be forwarded to the Board of Appeals.
109A.8  Group R-1 and R-2 Occupancy, Apartment House/Hotel License. A license shall be required for every Group R-1 and R-2 occupancy structure. The license shall be obtained by paying the necessary fees as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-P – apartment house and hotel license fees.
	The apartment house/hotel license is not transferable, and a new license must be applied for by the new owner within 30 days of change of ownership.
	The apartment house/hotel license shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel, alter or set aside any of the provisions or requirements of any laws or ordinances of the City and County of San Francisco, nor shall such issuance thereafter prevent requiring corrections of errors or of violations of any applicable law or ordinance of the City and County of San Francisco.
SECTION 110A – SCHEDULE OF FEE TABLES
SCHEDULE OF FEE TABLES:
	1A-A	Building Permit Fees
	1A-B	Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees
	1A-C	Plumbing/Mechanical Permit Issuance and Inspection Fees
	1A-D	Standard Hourly Rates
	1A-E	Electrical Permit Issuance and Inspection Fee Schedule
 	1A-F	Specialty Permit Fees
		1.	Bleachers Permit Fee Table
		2.	Chimney and Flue Permits
		3.	Demolition Permit Fee Table
		4.	Extra Permit Work
		5.	Garage Door Permits
		6.	Grading Permits
		7.	House Moving Permit Fee
		8.	Recommencement of Work Not Completed
		9.	Reroofing Permits
		10.	Strong Motion Instrumentation Program Fee
		11.	Subsidewalk Construction
		12.	Construction of Impervious Surface in Front Yard Setback Area
	1A-G	Inspections, Surveys and Reports
		1.	Standard Inspection Fee
		2.	Off-Hours Inspection
		3.	Pre-Application Inspection
		4.	Reinspection Fee
		5.	Report of Residential Records (3R)
		6.	Survey of Nonresidential Buildings
		7.	Survey of Residential Buildings for any Purpose or Condominium Conversion
		8.	Temporary Certificate of Occupancy
	1A-H	Sign Permit Fees
	1A-I	Reserved
	1A-J	Miscellaneous Fees
		1.	Building Numbers
		2.	Extension of Time: Application Cancellation and Permit Expiration
		3.	Product Approvals
	1A-K	Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments
		1.	Abatement Appeals Board Hearing, Filing Fee
		2.	Board of Examiners Filing Fees
		3.	Building Official's Abatement Orders
		4.	Emergency Order
		5.	Exceeding the Scope of the Approved Permit
		6.	Access Appeals Commission Filing Fee
		7.	Lien Recordation Charges
		8.	Work without Permit: Investigation Fee; Penalty
		9.	Building Commission Hearing Fees
		10.	Additional Hearings Required by Code
	1A-L	Public Information
		1.	Public Notification and Record Keeping Fees
		2.	Demolition
		3.	Notices
		4.	Reproduction and Dissemination of Public Information
		5.	Replacement of Approved Plans/Specifications
		6.	Records Retention Fee
	1A-M	Boiler Fees
	1A-N	Energy Conservation
	1A-O	Reserved
	1A-P	Apartment House and Hotel License Fees
	1A-Q	Hotel Conversion Ordinance Fees
	1A-R	Refunds
	1A-S	Unreinforced Masonry Building Retrofit
TABLE 1A-A – BUILDING PERMIT FEES
NEW CONSTRUCTION 1ALTERATIONS 1, 2NO PLANS 1, 2TOTAL VALUATIONPLAN REVIEW FEEPERMIT ISSUANCE FEEPLAN REVIEW FEEPERMIT ISSUANCE FEEPERMIT ISSUANCE FEE$1.00 to $2,000.00$141.17 for the first $500.00 plus $5.83 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $2,000.00$60.50  for the first $500.00 plus $2.50 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $2,000.00$155.75 for the first $500.00 plus $3.15 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $2,000.00$66.75 for the first $500.00 plus $1.35 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $2,000.00$180.00 for the first $500.00 plus $4.00 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $2,000.00$2,001.00 to $50,000.00$228.62 for the first $2,000.00 plus $14.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $50,000.00$98.00 for the first $2,000.00 plus $6.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $50,000.00$203.00  for the first $2,000.00 plus $19.11  for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $50,000.00$87.00 for the first $2,000.00 plus $8.19 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $50,000.00$240.00 for the first $2,000.00 plus $5.83 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $50,000.00$50,001.00 to $200,000.00$900.62 for the first $50,000.00 plus $9.33 for each additional $1000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $200,000.00$386.00  for the first $50,000.00 plus $4.00 for each additional $1000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $200,000.00$1,120.28 for the first $50,000.00 plus $11.43 for  each additional $1000.00 or fraction thereof, to and  including $200,000.00$480.12 for the first $50,000.00 plus $4.90 for each additional $1000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $200,000.00$519.84 for the first $50,000.00 plus $2.86 for each additional $1000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $200,000.00$200,001.00 to $500,000.00$2,300.12 for the first $200,000.00 plus $6.53 for each additional $1000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $500,000.00$986.00 for the first $200,000.00 plus $2.80 for each additional $1000.00 or fraction thereof, to  and including $500,000.00$2,834.78 for the first $200,000.00 plus $9.33 for each additional $1000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $500,000.00$1,215.12 for the first $200,000.00 plus $4.00 for each additional $1000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $500,000.00Plans Required for Submittal$500,001.00 to $1,000,000.00$4,259.12 for the first $500,000.00 plus $5.83 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000.00$1,826.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $2.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000.00$5,633.78 for the first $500,000.00 plus $6.42 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000.00$2,415.12 for the first $500,000.00 plus $2.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000.00Plans Required for Submittal$1,000,001.00 to $5,000,000.00$7,174.12 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $5.13 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000.00$3,076.00 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $2.20 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000.00$8,843.78 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $5.83 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000.00$3,790.12 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $2.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000.00Plans Required for Submittal$5,000,001.00 and up$27,694.12  for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $4.90 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction hereof$11,876.00 for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $2.10 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof$32,163.78 for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $5.48 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof$13,790.12 for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $2.35 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereofPlans Required for SubmittalNOTES:
	1.	These permit fees do not include other fees that may be required by other Departments: Public Works, Planning, Fire, Public Health, etc., nor do they include plumbing, electrical or mechanical permit fees unless so stated in the other fee tables.
	2.	A surcharge of $5.00 shall be added to those alteration permits sought for buildings classified as R3 (one/two-family dwelling) and E3 (licensed day care) that were constructed prior to 1979 to implement the interior lead safe work practices provisions of Section 3407 et seq. of this code.
TABLE 1A-B – OTHER BUILDING PERMIT AND PLAN REVIEW FEES
1.	Plan Review Fees Not Covered in Table 1A-A:Plan Review Hourly Rate - Minimum One Hour2.	Back Check Fee:Plan Review Hourly Rate - Minimum One Hour3.	Commencement of work not started:See SFBC Section 106A.4.4.1 Note: Compliance with additional codes is required.	a.	Building, Plumbing, Mechanical, or Electric Permit Fee:75% of current fee	b.	Plan Review Fee:100% of current fee4.	Permit Facilitator Fee:Plan Review Hourly Rate Hourly - Minimum Three Hours See SFBC Section 106A.3.65.	Pre-application Plan Review Fee:Plan Review Hourly Rate - Minimum Two Hours Per Employee6.	Reduced Plan Review Fee:50% of the Plan Review Fee7.	Sign Plan Review Fee:See Table 1A-A– Building Permit Fees8.	Site Permit Fee:25% of Plan Review Fee based on Table 1A-A. Minimum fee $500.009.	Premium Plan Review Fee– Submitted application:50% of Plan Review Fee plus $1,000.0010.	Premium Plan Review Fee– Over the counter building plan review by appointment:50% of Plan Review Fee plus $400.0011.	Other Services:Hourly Rates per Table 1A-D
NOTES:
	1.	See Table 1A-D-Standard Hourly Rates.
	2.	“Back check” is defined as: (1) that time spent reviewing applicant-initiated revisions to plans that do not affect the valuation, scope or size of the project; or (2) any additional plan review performed on required corrections to plans beyond the standard review process, as determined by the Building Official. Plan review required for applicant-initiated revisions effecting valuation, scope, or size or project may be assessed a new plan review fee in addition to the initial plan review fee as determined by the Building Official.
TABLE 1A-C – PLUMBING/MECHANICAL PERMIT ISSUANCE AND INSPECTION FEES
A.	Permit applicants shall show a complete itemization of the proposed scope of work and select the appropriate fee category.
B.	A separate permit is required for each structure, condominium unit, existing apartment unit, high- rise office floor, suite, or tenant space.
C.	Standard hourly issuance/inspection rates will apply for installations not covered by the fee categories below.
D.	Fees shall be paid in full prior to approval for occupancy, job card signature, gas tags, or final signoff, as applicable.
E.	 See Table 1A-R for refund policy.

1.	Permit Issuance Fees by Category:

CATEGORY 1PSingle Residential Unit– water service, sewer replacement, single plumbing fixture installation, shower pan installation, or kitchen or bathroom remodels$160.00CATEGORY 1MSingle Residential Unit– mechanical gas appliance (furnace, hydronic heat, heat pump)$150.00CATEGORY 2PAPlumbing installation for residential construction with 6 or less dwelling units or guest rooms; without underground plumbing installation (includes water, gas, waste, and vent)$275.00CATEGORY 2PBPlumbing installation for residential construction with 6 dwelling units or guest rooms or less; with underground plumbing installation (includes water, gas, waste, and vent)$400.00CATEGORY 2MMechanical gas appliances for residential construction with 6 dwelling units or guest rooms or less$240.00CATEGORY 3PA7– 12 Dwelling Units$575.00CATEGORY 3PB13– 36 Dwelling Units$1,150.00CATEGORY 3PCOver 36 Dwelling Units$4,800.00CATEGORY 3MA7– 12 Dwelling Units$575.00CATEGORY 3MB13– 36 Dwelling Units$1,150.00CATEGORY 3MCOver 36 Dwelling Units$4,800.00CATEGORY 4PAFire sprinklers– one and two family dwelling units$150.00CATEGORY 4PBFire sprinklers– 3 or more dwelling units or guest rooms, commercial and office– per floor$250.00CATEGORY 5P/5MOffice, mercantile & retail buildings: New or Tenant Improvements; heating/cooling equipment to piping connected thereto– per tenant or per floor, whichever is less$325.00CATEGORY 6PARestaurants (new and remodel) fee includes 5 or less drainage and or gas outlets– no fees required for public or private restroom$311.00CATEGORY 6PBRestaurants (new and remodel) fee includes 6 or more drainage and/or gas outlets– no fees required for public or private restroom$880.00CATEGORY 8New boiler installations over 200 kbtu$275.00CATEGORY 9P/MSurveys$300.00CATEGORY 10P/MCondominium conversions$365.00BOILER MAINTENANCE PROGRAM(Permit to operate– PTO) See Table 1A-M– Boiler Fees for additional boiler- related fees.$52.00 each2.Standard inspection fees Reinspection or additional inspection per SFBC Section 108A.8Hourly inspection rate
A permit may include more than one category, and each category will be charged separately.
TABLE 1A-D – STANDARD HOURLY RATES
1.	Plan Review		$187.00 per hour
2.	Inspection		$170.00 per hour, $180.00 per hour for OSHPD inspection
3.	Administration		$104.00 per hour, with a minimum charge of $52.00 for 30 minutes or less
TABLE 1A-E – ELECTRICAL PERMIT ISSUANCE AND INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE
A.	Permit applicants are required to itemize the proposed scope of work and select the appropriate category and fee amount.
B.	Separate permits are required for each structure, condominium unit, existing dwelling unit (except in R3 occupancies), common area, commercial office floor or individual tenant space.
C.	Standard hourly permit issuance and inspection rates shall apply for installations not covered by this fee schedule.
D.	Fees shall be paid in full prior to obtaining: occupancy approval, job card signature, permission to energize, or final signoff, as applicable.
E.	For the purpose of fee calculation: appliances and utilization equipment each count as one outlet or device in addition to receptacles, switches, and light outlets.
	See Table 1A-R for refund policy.
	See Table 1A-J for permit extensions.

	Category 1
	General Wiring: Residential Buildings up to 10,000 sq. ft.

Up to 10 outlets and/or devices	$160.00
11 to 20 outlets and/or devices	$240.00
Up to 40 outlets and/or devices, includes up to 200 Amp service upgrade	$300.00
* More than 40 outlets and/or devices	$420.00
* Buildings of 5,000 to 10,000 sq. ft.	$600.00

	Category 2
	General Wiring: Nonresidential Buildings & Residential Buildings over 10,000 sq. ft.

Up to 5 outlets and/or devices	$240.00
6 to 20 outlets and/or devices	$360.00
* Areas up to 2,500 sq. ft.	$480.00
* 2,501 to 5,000 sq. ft.	$720.00
* 5,001 to 10,000 sq. ft.	$1,200.00
* 10,001 to 30,000 sq. ft.	$2,400.00
* 30,001 to 50,000 sq. ft.	$4,800.00
* 50.001 to 100,000 sq. ft.	$7,200.00
* 100,001 to 500,000 sq. ft.	$14,400.00
* 500,001 to 1,000,000 sq. ft.	$32,400.00
* More than 1,000,000 sq. ft.	$64,800.00
* Includes Category 3 & 4 installations in new buildings or major remodel work	


	Category 3
	Service Distribution and Utilization Equipment
	Includes: Generators, UPS, Transformers and Fire Pumps
	(Use Category 3 for installations separate from the scope of work in Categories 1 or 2)

225 amps rating or less	$240.00
250 to 500 amps	$360.00
600 to 1000 amps	$480.00
1,200 to 2,000 amps	$720.00
More than 2,000 amps	$960.00
600 volts or more	$960.00
150 kva or less	$240.00
151 kva or more	$360.00
Fire Pump installations	$480.00

	Category 4
	Installations of Fire Warning and Controlled Devices
	(Use Category 4 for installations separate from the scope of work in Categories 1 or 2)

Up to 2,500 sq. ft.	$240.00
2,501 to 5,000 sq. ft.	$360.00
5,001 to 10,000 sq. ft.	$720.00
10,001 to 30,000 sq. ft.	$1,200.00
30,001 to 50,000 sq. ft.	$2,400.00
50,001 to 100,000 sq. ft.	$4,800.00
100,001 to 500,000 sq. ft.	$7,200.00
500,001 to 1,000,000 sq. ft.	$16,200.00
More than 1,000,000 sq. ft.	$32,400.00
	Table 1A-E

	Fire Warning and Controlled Devices (Retrofit Systems)

Buildings of not more than 6 dwelling units	$360.00
Buildings of not more than 12 dwelling units	$480.00
Buildings with more than 12 dwelling units and non-residential occupancy
	Building up to 3 floors	$720.00
	4– 9 floors	$1,440.00
	10– 20 floors	$2,400.00
	21– 30 floors	$4,800.00
	More than 30 floors	$7,200.00

	Category 5
	Miscellaneous Installations

Remodel/Upgrade of Existing Hotel Guest/SRO Rooms
Up to 6 rooms	$300.00
Each additional group of 3 rooms	$150.00

Data, Communications, and Wireless Systems
10 cables or less	Exempt
11 to 500 cables	$170.00
Each additional group of 100 cables	$25.00

Security Systems, 10 components or less	$170.00
Each additional group of 10 components	$10.00
Includes installations and devices that interface with life safety systems; excludes installations in R3 Occupancies

Office Workstations, 5 or less	$170.00
Each additional group of 10 workstations	$50.00

Temporary Exhibition Wiring, 1 to 100 booths (1 inspection)	$240.00
Each additional group of 10 booths	$25.00

Exterior Electrical Sign	$170.00
Interior Electrical Sign	$170.00
Each Additional Sign, at the same address	$40.00
Garage Door Operator (Requiring receptacle installation)	$170.00

Quarterly Permits	$375.00
	Maximum five outlets in any one location

Survey, per hour or fraction thereof	$170.00
Survey, Research, and Report preparation, per hour or fraction thereof	$300.00

Witness Testing: life safety, fire warning, emergency, and energy management systems
Hourly Rate	$170.00
Additional hourly rate	$170.00
Off-hour inspections: (two hour minimum)	$340.00
Additional off-hourly rate	$255.00

Energy Management, HVAC Controls, and Low-Voltage Wiring Systems
1– 10 floors (3 inspections)	$480.00
Each additional floor	$50.00

Solar Photovoltaic Systems
10 KW rating or less	$170.00
Each additional 10 KW rating	$100.00
Standard Hourly Inspection Rate	See Table 1A-D
TABLE 1A-F – SPECIALTY PERMIT FEES
1.	Bleachers Permit Fee:See Table 1A-A for New Construction Fees2.	Chimney and Flue Permit Fee:See Table 1A-A for New Construction Fees3.	Demolition Permit Fee:See Table 1A-A for New Construction Fees4.	Extra Permit Work: 
(exceeding scope)2 times the standard fees for work remaining to be done or not covered in original permit scope5.	Garage Door Permit Fee:
Each garage door in an existing building$160.006.	Grading Permit Fee:See Table 1A-A for New Construction Fees7.	House Moving Permit Fee:Standard Hourly Inspection Rate - Minimum 3 Hours8.	Recommencement of Work Not Completed:Standard Inspection Fee per Table 1A-G; See also Table 1A-B– Commencement of Work Not Started9.	Reroofing Permit Fee:$160.00 for Single-Family homes and duplexes
$240.00 for all others10.	Strong Motion Instrumentation Program Fee:	Group R Occupancies of 3 stories or less, except hotels and motels0.00013 times the valuation	Hotels and motels, all buildings greater than 3 stories, all occupancies other than Group R0.00024 times the valuation	Minimum fee$1.6011.	Subsidewalk Construction Permit Fee:	ConstructionSee Table 1A-A for New Construction Fees12.	Construction of impervious surface in the required front and setback area$160.00
TABLE 1A-G – INSPECTIONS, SURVEYS AND REPORTS
1. 	Standard Hourly RateSee Table 1A-D2. 	Off-hours inspectionStandard Hourly Inspection Rate - Minimum Two Hours plus permit fee3. 	Pre-application inspectionStandard Hourly Inspection Rate - Minimum Two  Hours4. 	Re-inspection feeStandard Hourly Inspection Rate5. 	Report of residential records (3R)$160.006.	Survey of nonresidential buildings:Standard Hourly Inspection Rate - Minimum Two Hours7. 	Survey of residential buildings for any purpose or Condo Conversions:	Single unit$1,750.00	Two to four units$2,300.00	Five + units$2,300.00 plus Standard Hourly Inspection Rate	Hotels:		Includes 10 guestrooms$1,750.00		11 +  guestrooms$2,300.00 plus $42.50 per guestroom over 118. 	Temporary Certificate of OccupancyStandard Hourly Inspection Rate - Minimum Two Hours
TABLE 1A-H – SIGN PERMIT FEES
Nonelectric and electric sign permit fee– See Table 1A-A for New Construction Fees
NOTE: See also Table 1A-E for required Electrical Sign Permits and Inspections
TABLE 1A-I – RESERVED

TABLE 1A-J – MISCELLANEOUS FEES
1. 	Central Permit Bureau Processing Fee for Miscellaneous Permits from other disciplinesStandard Administration Hourly Rate - Minimum One- Half Hour2.	 Building numbers (each entrance)$104.00 NEW ADDRESSES $210.00 CHANGE OF EXISTING ADDRESS OR LOT NUMBER3. 	Extension of time: application cancellation and permit expiration:	Each application extension (in plan review)$160.00 plus 20% of All Plan Review Fees	Each permit extension$160.00 plus 10% of All Permit Issuance Fees4. 	Product approvals:	General approval - initial or reinstatementStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Three Hours	General approval - modification or revisionStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Three Hours	General approval - biannual renewalStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Three Hours5. 	Technology surcharge on the cost of permit applications processed by the Department of Building Inspection for all departments and bureaus of the City and County of San Francisco2% of permit cost6. 	California Building Standards Commission FeePursuant to the provisions of California Health and Safety Code Sections 18930.5, 18931.6, 18931.7 and 18938.397. 	Vacant building - Initial and annual registration fee Standard Inspection Hourly Rate - Minimum Four and One-Half Hours
TABLE 1A-K – PENALTIES, HEARINGS, CODE ENFORCEMENT ASSESSMENTS
1. 	Abatement Appeals Board hearing, filing fee$170.00 per case2. 	Board of Examiners filing fees:	Each appeal for variance from interpretation of code requirementsStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Two Hours	Each appeal for approval of substitute materials or methods of constructionStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Four Hours3. 	Building Official’s abatement order hearingStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Two Hours4. 	Emergency orderStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Two Hours5. 	Exceeding the scope of the approved permit2 times the issuance fee6. 	Access Appeals Commission:	Filing feeStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Two Hours per appeal	Request for a rehearingStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Two Hours7. 	Lien recordation charges$187.00 or 10 percent of the amount of the unpaid balance, including interest, whichever is greater8. 	Work without permit:  investigation fee:	Building, Electrical, Plumbing or Mechanical Code violations9 times the Permit Issuance Fee plus the original permit fee9. 	Building Inspection Commission hearing fees:	Notice of appealStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Four Hours	Request for jurisdictionStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Four Hours	Request for rehearingStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Two Hours10. 	Additional hearings required by CodeStandard Hourly Plan Review Rate - Minimum Four Hours11. 	Violation monitoring fee (in-house)Standard Administration Hourly Rate– Minimum One- Half Hour Monthly
TABLE 1A-L – PUBLIC INFORMATION
1. 	Public notification and record keeping fees:	Structural addition noticeStandard Administration Hourly Rate - Minimum One- Half Hour	Affidavit record maintenance$15.00	Posting of notices (change of use)Standard Administration Hourly Rate - Minimum One- Half Hour	Requesting notice of permit issuance (each address) per yearStandard Administration Hourly Rate - Minimum One- Half Hour	30-inch by 30-inch (762 mm by 762 mm) sign$15.002. 	Demolition:	Notice of application and permit issuance by area/interested parties:		1 area (1 area = 2 blocks)$104.00 per annum per each area3. 	Notices:	300-foot (91.44 m) notification lettersStandard Administration Hourly Rate - Minimum One and One-Half Hour	Residential tenants notificationStandard Administration Hourly Rate - Minimum One- Half Hour4. 	Reproduction and dissemination of public information:	Certification of copies:		1 to 10 pages$15.00		Each additional 10 pages or fraction thereof$3.50	Electrostatic reproduction:		Each page photocopy$0.10		35 mm duplicards from microfilm rolls (Diazo card)$3.50	Hard copy prints:		8 1/2 inch by 11 inch copy from microfilm roll$0.10		11 inch by 17 inch copy of plans$0.10		8 1/2 inch by 11 inch copy from aperture cards or from electronic copies of building records (scanned or computer generated)$0.105.	Replacement of approved construction documents:		Each sheet of plans (Larger than 11 × 17)ACTUAL COST CHARGED BY VENDOR6.	Records Retention Fee		Each page of plans per page of plans$3.00		Each page of supporting documentation (e.g., soil reports, structural calculations, acoustical reports, energy calculations, etc.) per page of documentation$0.10
TABLE 1A-M – BOILER FEES
Permit to install or replaceSee Table 1A-C - Category 8Permit to operate (certificate issued)Standard Administration Hourly Rate - Minimum One- Half HourRenew permit to operate (certificate issued)Standard Administration Hourly Rate - Minimum One- Half HourReplacement of issued permit to operateStandard Administration Hourly Rate - Minimum One- Half HourConnection to utility company provided steam (includes permit to operate)Standard Administration Hourly Rate - Minimum One- Half HourBoiler Maintenance Program$52.00
Renewal required:
1.	Low-pressure boilers every 12 months. (See definition of low-pressure boilers in Chapter 2.)
2.	Water heaters when alteration or replacement permits are issued.
TABLE 1A-N – ENERGY CONSERVATION
INITIAL INSPECTIONCOMPLIANCE INSPECTIONSingle-family dwellings and two-family dwellings$170.00$85.00Apartment houses and residential hotels:	Up to 20 rooms$255.00$127.50	Each additional 10 rooms or portion thereof$85.00$52.00Energy reports and certificates:$52.00Filing fee for appeals:$104.00Certification of qualified energy inspector:$200.00
TABLE 1A-O – RESERVED

TABLE 1A-P – RESIDENTIAL CODE ENFORCEMENT AND LICENSE FEES
1. 	One- and Two-family dwelling unit fees:$52.00 per rental unit2. 	Apartment house license fees:	Apartment houses of 3 to 12 units$326.00 per annum	Apartment houses of 13 to 30 units$488.00 per annum	Apartment houses of more than 30 units$488.00 and $55.00 for each additional 10 units or portion thereof3. 	Hotel license fees:	Hotels of 6 to 29 rooms$256.00 per annum	Hotels of 30 to 59 rooms$470.00 per annum	Hotels of 60 to 149 rooms$584.00 per annum	Hotels of 150 to 200 rooms$660.00 per annum	Hotels of more than 200 rooms$660.00 and $55.00 for each additional 25 rooms or portion thereof
TABLE 1A-Q – HOTEL CONVERSION ORDINANCE FEES
Annual unit usage report$104.001. 	Appeal of initial or annual status determination:Standard Inspection Hourly Rate pursuant to Section 110A of this code shall apply for Department Inspector’s work on such request plus fees for Hearing Officer2. 	Challenge to claims of exemption:	Usage report$52.00	Claim of exemption based on low-income housing$340.00	Claim of exemption based on partially completed conversion$510.003. 	Complaint of unlawful conversion$52.00	Determination by Department of Real Estate and cost of independent appraisalsActual costs4. 	Initial unit usage report $340.005. 	Permit to convert$510.006. 	Request for hearing to exceed 25% tourist season rental limit:	Inspection staff review - standard hourly inspection feeStandard Inspection Hourly Rate	Statement of exemption - Hearing Officer fee$340.007. 	Unsuccessful challenge:	Usage report:		Inspection staff review - standard hourly inspection feeStandard Inspection Hourly Rate		Statement of exemption - Hearing Officer fee$340.00	Request for winter rental:		Standard hourly inspection feeStandard Inspection Hourly Rate
TABLE 1A-R – REFUNDS
Partial or complete refunds of only those fees contained herein will be given, provided the applicant meets the refund requirements of the applicable section of this code. No other fees are refundable, except as follows:

1. 	Application or Permit Issuance Fee:	Building, plumbing, electrical or mechanical permit issuance fee Amount paid less $160.00 or actual costs, whichever is greater. No refunds given after work started.	Plan Review Fees (each)Amount determined by the Building Official less $160.00 
No Refund due after application deemed acceptable for Department of Building Inspection Plan Review2. 	Miscellaneous Fees:Amount paid less $52.00 
No refunds less than $52.00
If the Building Official determines that an error has been made in the assessment of fees, a refund for the portion determined to be in error may be made upon written request by the applicant.

TABLE 1A-S – UNREINFORCED MASONRY BEARING WALL BUILDING RETROFIT
Review of Inventory Form (Section 1604B.2.1)Standard Plan Review Hourly Rate - Minimum Two HoursReview of the summary of the engineering report (Section 1604B.2.3)Standard Plan Review Hourly Rate - Minimum Two HoursBoard of Examiners filing fees (Section 105A7.4):	Each appeal for a variance from or interpretation of code requirementsStandard Plan Review Hourly Rate - Minimum Two Hours	Each appeal for the approval of substitute materials or methods of design or construction (Section 105A.7.3)Standard Plan Review Hourly Rate - Minimum Four Hours
FIGURE 1A-I – 1851 HIGH-TIDE LINE MAP




Chapter 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION 202 – DEFINITIONS
202  Add this definition as follows:
KITCHEN. That portion in a residential dwelling unit that is a room or area used for cooking, food storage and preparation and washing dishes, including associated counter tops and cabinets, refrigerator, stove, ovens and floor area.
202   Revise the first sentence of the following two definitions under STANDPIPE SYSTEM:
STANDPIPE SYSTEM, CLASSES OF. Standpipe classes are as follows:
	Class I system. A system providing 3" (76.2 mm) [ß] hose connections to supply water for use by fire departments and those trained in handling heavy fire streams.
	Class III system. A system providing 1-1/2-inch (38 mm) hose stations to supply water for use by building occupants and 3" (76.2 mm) [ß] hose connections to supply a larger volume of water for use by fire departments and those trained in handling heavy fire streams.
202  Revise this definition as follows:
STORY, FIRST. For Large family day care, the first story shall be the floor used for residential occupancy nearest to the street level which provides primary access to the building. [ß]
Chapter 3
USE AND OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 4
SPECIAL DETAILED REQUIREMENTS BASED ON USE AND OCCUPANCY
SECTION 406 – MOTOR-VEHICLE-RELATED OCCUPANCIES
406.3.3  Add the following third paragraph at the end of the section:
406.3.3  Garages and carports.
	Ventilation shall be provided as follows: Natural ventilation shall be required, and such space shall be provided with ventilation outlets in the walls or exterior doors. The total net area of such ventilation outlets shall be 200 square inches (0.129 m2) for a space up to 1,000 square feet (92.903 m2) in area and shall be increased 30 square inches (0.0194 m2) for each additional 200 square feet (18.58 m2) of floor area up to maximum floor area of 3,000 square feet (278.709 m2).
SECTION 425 – SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR LICENSED 24-HOUR CARE FACILITIES IN A GROUP R-2.1, R-3.1, R-4
425.3  Add the following section:
425.3.5  For detached one- and two-family dwellings, and townhouses not more than three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of egress, buildings housing protective social-care homes or in occupancies housing inmates who are not restrained need not be of one-hour fire-resistive construction when not more than two stories in height. In no case shall individual floor areas exceed 3,000 square feet (279 m2).  The fire-resistive protection of the exterior walls shall not be less than one hour where such walls are located within 5 feet (1524 mm) of the property line. Openings within such walls are not permitted. Openings within non-rated walls need not be protected. [CRC R325.3.2] 
446  Add the following section:
SECTION 446 – FENCES
446.1  Fences. Fences on any property containing a Group R Occupancy shall not be higher than 10 feet (3.048 mm). Fences located less than 10 feet (3.048 mm) from any public sidewalk shall not be higher than 10 feet (3.048 mm) unless they are of open-type materials such as chain link fabric. Fence height shall be measured from the level of general existing adjacent ground of the general area prior to the improvement of the properties. A fence or railing placed on top of the retaining wall shall be measured from the top of the wall.
	Fences constructed wholly or in part of barbed wire are prohibited, except when permitted with the express written permission of the Building Official, and the Fire Department in the following situations:
	1.	On top of a fence more than 7 feet (2.134 m) high, protecting a dangerous or hazardous area.
	2.	Within a private area, enclosed by a seven- foot-high (2.134 m) fence, such that entry to the area is limited by the outer, nonbarbed fence.
	3.	In special instances for localized protection, and in areas within or atop a building to isolate dangerous conditions.
Chapter 5
GENERAL BUILDING HEIGHTS AND AREAS
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 6
TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 7
FIRE AND SMOKE PROTECTION FEATURES
SECTION 707 – FIRE BARRIERS
707.1  Add a second paragraph to this section as follows:
707.1  General.
	Information technology rooms shall be in accordance with the Fire Code and Electrical Code. See Administrative Bulletin AB-060.
Chapter 7A
[SFM] MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION METHODS FOR EXTERIOR WILDFIRE EXPOSURE
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 8
INTERIOR FINISHES
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 9
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
SECTION 901 – GENERAL
901.4  Add a second paragraph as follows:
	Notwithstanding any other provisions of the California Building Code or other codes or regulations, Fire Department connections shall have 3-inch (76.2 mm) National Standard hose threads.
SECTION 903 – AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
903.2.8  Add exception 5 as follows:
	5.	An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required when additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses, one- and two- family dwellings not more than three stories above grade plane that do not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed. [CRC 1.1.3, R313.1, R313.2]
Table 903.2.11.6   Add a new line to the end of the Table as follows:
TABLE 903.2.11.6
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS

SECTIONSUBJECT3202.3.4Pedestrian Walkways over Public Streets
SECTION 905 – STANDPIPE SYSTEMS
905.3.4  Revise this section as follows:
905.3.4  Stages. Stages greater than 1,000 square feet in area (93 m2) shall be equipped with a Class III wet standpipe system with 1-1/2-inch and 3-inch (38 mm and 76.2 mm) [ß] hose connections on each side of the stage.
SECTION 907 – FIRE ALARM AND DETECTION SYSTEMS
907.2.9.1  Revise Item 3 as follows:
	3.	The building contains more than 6 [ß] dwelling units or sleeping units.
907.2.9.1  Revise Item 4 as follows:
	4.	Congregate living facilities or congregate residences three or more stories in height or having an occupant load of 11 or more.[ß]
907.2.9.5  Add the following section:
907.2.9.5  Automatic smoke detection system. An automatic smoke detection system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.6 shall be installed throughout all interior corridors serving sleeping units.
Exceptions:
	1.	An automatic smoke detection system is not required in buildings that do not have interior corridors serving sleeping units and where each sleeping unit has a means of egress door opening directly to an exit or to an exterior exit access that leads directly to an exit.
	2.	An automatic smoke detection system is not required in buildings when all of the following conditions are met:
		2.1.	The building is equipped throughout with a supervised automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.
		2.2.	The notification devices will activate upon sprinkler water flow; and
		2.3.	At least one manual fire alarm box is installed in an approved location.
907.2.11.6  Add a second paragraph as follows:
	Group R-3 congregate living facilities having an occupant load of 6 or more shall be provided with a manual fire alarm system.
SECTION 912 – FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS
912  Add the following section:
912.6  Number of connections required. Sprinkler systems requiring a 4-inch (101.6 mm) or larger water service shall have two or more inlet connections as necessary to meet hydraulic demand.
Chapter 10
MEANS OF EGRESS
SECTION 1008 – DOORS, GATES AND TURNSTILES
1008.1.2  Revise item 4 as follows:
	4.	Other than the main egress door at the primary entry, doors within or serving a single dwelling unit in Groups R-2 and R-3.
SECTION 1009 – STAIRWAYS
1009.7.5  Modify the first sentence of the first paragraph as follows:
	For all occupancies except R-3 one and two family dwellings and townhouses the radius of curvature at the leading edge of the tread shall be not greater than 9/16 inch (14.3 mm).
1009.7.5  Add a second paragraph as follows:
	For R-3 one and two family dwellings and townhouses, the radius of curvature at the nosing shall be no greater than 9/16 inch (14 mm). A nosing not less than 3/4 inch (19 mm) but not more than 1-1/4 inches (32 mm) shall be provided on stairways with solid risers. The greatest nosing projection shall not exceed the smallest nosing projection by more than 3/8 inch (9.5 mm) between two stories, including the nosing at the level of floors and landings. Beveling of nosings shall not exceed ½ inch (12.7 mm). Risers shall be vertical or sloped under the tread above from the underside of the nosing above at an angle not more than 30 degrees (.051 rad) from the vertical. Open risers are permitted, provided that the opening between treads does not permit the passage of a 4-inch diameter (102 mm) sphere.
	Exception: A nosing is not required where the tread depth is a minimum of 11 inches (279 mm). [CRC R311.7.5.37]
1009  Add new sections as follows:
	1009.18  Stairs or ladders used only to attend equipment or window wells are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
	1009.19  Stairways that replace existing stairways in residential occupancies and which complied with the code in effect at the time they were constructed, and which have been adequately maintained and increased in relation to any increase in occupant load, alteration or addition, or any change in occupancy, may be reconstructed in the same configuration and construction as the existing stairways.
SECTION 1010 – RAMPS
1010.3  Add second exception as follows:
	Exception 2: For R-3 one and two family dwellings and townhouses, where it is technically infeasible to comply because of site constraints, ramps may have a maximum slope of one unit vertical in eight horizontal (12.5 percent). [CRC R311.8.1]
SECTION 1011 – EXIT SIGNS
1011.1  Add the following sentence after the exceptions:
	Doorways or other openings leading to a fire escape, except within individual dwelling units, shall be provided with a sign reading "FIRE ESCAPE" in letters not less than 6 inches (152 mm) high, in high contrast with the background.
SECTION 1013 – GUARDS
1013.4  Revise exception 1 as follows:
	1.	For occupancies other than R-3 and Townhouses, from a height of 36 inches (914 mm) to 42 inches (1067 mm), guards shall not have openings which allow passage of a sphere 4 3/8 inches (111 mm) in diameter.
SECTION 1014 – EXIT ACCESS
1014.2  Add item 5 as follows:
	5.	[Reference CRC R311.1] For one- and two- family dwellings and townhouses, means of egress is allowed to pass through rooms and intervening spaces except garages.
1014.4  Add a section as follows:
1014.4 [Reference CRC R311.4]   Vertical egress. For habitable levels or basements in R-3 occupancies or townhouses that are located more than one story above or more than one story below an egress door, the maximum travel distance from any occupied point to a stairway or ramp that provides egress from such habitable level or basement shall not exceed 50 feet (15240 mm).
Chapter 10A
SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
Add chapter as follows:
SECTION 1001A – SCOPE
1001A.1  General. This chapter shall apply to all Group R, Division 1 and R, Division 2 Occupancies.
1001A.2  Apartment Houses. Apartment houses (Group R, Division 1 and R, Division 2 Occupancies) and buildings containing more than two residential condominium units shall meet the security requirements of this chapter.
1001A.3  Hotels and Motels. Hotels and motels shall comply with the security requirements of this chapter. For the purpose of this chapter, any building open to the public and offering accommodations to transient persons for compensation shall be considered as a hotel or motel.
SECTION 1002A – DEFINITIONS
	For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms are defined as follows:
	AUXILIARY LOCKING DEVICE is a secondary locking system added to the primary locking system to provide additional security.
	BURGLARY-RESISTANT GLAZING MATERIALS are materials which are defined in ANSI/UL Standard 972.
	DEADBOLT is a lock bolt which must be actuated by a key, a knob or thumb-turn and when projected becomes locked against return by end pressure, and does not have spring action, as a latch bolt does. A SINGLE CYLINDER DEADBOLT is a deadbolt lock which is activated from the outside by a key and from the inside by a knob, thumb-turn lever or similar mechanism. A DOUBLE CYLINDER DEADBOLT is a deadbolt which can only be activated by a key from both interior and exterior.
	DEADLATCH or DEADLOCKING LATCH BOLT is a spring-actuated latch bolt having a beveled end and an incorporated plunger which, when depressed, automatically locks the projected latch bolt against return by end pressure.
	PRIMARY LOCKING DEVICE is the single locking system on a door or window unit whose function is to prevent unauthorized intrusion.
	WINDOW LOCKING DEVICE is part of a window assembly which is intended to prevent movement of the movable sash, and may be the sash lock or sash operator.
SECTION 1003A – GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY
1003A.1  Clearances. The clearance between the door and the frame and between meeting edges of doors swinging in pairs shall not exceed 1/8 inch (3.2 mm). The clearance between the door and the floor with either flush or raised sill shall be not more than 3/4 inch (19.1 mm).
1003A.2  Door Assemblies. Excluding main entry doors, all exterior swinging doors, and swinging interior and exterior entry doors, including assemblies and related hardware, which are directly accessible from the ground level or by stairs or by ramp, or from roof areas, or parking lot, or garage areas, shall meet the requirements of Grade 20 of ANSI/ASTM F476, Standard Test Methods for Security of Swinging Door Assemblies.
	All such doors shall be self-closing continuously locked, and openable from the interior with no special effort or knowledge or key. Where electrically operated locks are used, they must be self-latching and locking and shall have manual release capability from the interior requiring no special effort or knowledge or key.
1003A.2.1  Main entrance. All main entry doors, including electrically operated main entry doors, shall be provided with a primary locking device. "Main entry doors" shall be defined as exterior doors leading directly into the lobby, registration areas or employee entrances.
1003A.2.2  Viewer. Each door shall be provided with a minimum 135-degree viewer which does not have sighting capability when viewed from the outside. Mounting height shall not exceed 58 inches (1473 mm).
1003A.3  Fire-rated Door Assemblies. Fire-rated door assemblies shall meet the requirements of Grade 20, ANSI/ASTM F476.
1003A.4  Glazing. All glazing within 40 inches (1016 mm) of any locking mechanism of exterior and interior dwelling unit doors shall be of safety glass or burglar-resistant glazing. This requirement shall not exempt the swinging door assembly standards of Grade 20 of ANSI/ASTM F476.
1003A.5  Metal Gates. Metal gates shall conform to the following:
	1.	Latch bolt protected by a security plate.
	2.	Hinges, bolts, screws shall be nonremovable.
	3.	Areas within 40 inches (1016 mm) of latch mechanism protected by mesh screen or approved equal.
	4.	Interior release mechanism protected with cover.
	5.	For electrically operated locks, see Section 1003A.2.
1003A.6  Sliding Glass Doors. Sliding glass door assemblies shall be so designed that the door cannot be lifted from the track when the door is in a locked position.
	In addition to the primary locking device, all sliding glass doors shall have an auxiliary locking device permanently mounted and not accessible from the exterior of the building but easily accessible from the interior.
1003A.7  Sliding Glass Windows. Sliding glass window assemblies shall be so designed that the moving panel cannot be lifted from the track while in a closed position.
1003A.8  Parking Areas. Parking space numbering shall not correspond to the guest room or dwelling unit number.
	Exterior parking areas and access thereto shall be provided with a minimum of ½ foot-candle (5.38 lx) of light on the parking surface when the area is unoccupied. Lighting devices shall be protected by weather- and vandalism-resistant covers.
SECTION 1004A – SPECIAL HOTEL AND MOTEL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
1004A.1  Entry Doors to Guest Rooms.
	EXCEPTION: Residential care facilities licensed by the State of California under Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations shall not be required to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
	Locks shall be a combination of minimum 1/2-inch (12.7 mm) throw deadlatch with a minimum 1-inch (25.4 mm) deadbolt.
	All locks shall be capable of locking out all keys, except the emergency keys for guest privacy while inside the room, and so constructed that both deadlatch and deadbolt are retracted simultaneously by a single knob or lever.
1004A.2  Communicating Door Between Guest Rooms. Communicating doors between guest rooms if not required to be fire-rated shall meet the requirements of Grade 20 of ANSI/ASTM F476 and be of minimum 1 3/8-inch (35 mm) bonded wood core or approved equal.
1004A.3  Roof Openings. All skylights leading directly to guest rooms, offices and enclosed commercial space shall be provided with burglary-resistant glazing as defined in Section 1002A.
1004A.4  Message and Key Box – Front Desk. The message and room key location at the front desk shall not be visible from public view so as to determine an unoccupied room.
SECTION 1005A – SPECIAL APARTMENT HOUSE AND CONDOMINIUM SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
1005A.1  Voice Communications. A two-way voice communication system shall be provided between the common entry door and all interior dwelling units. All systems shall provide direct communication.
1005A.2  Lighting. Lighting shall be a minimum of 1/2 foot-candle (5.38 lx) of light on the ground surface from the street to the entry door. Lighting devices shall be protected by weather- and vandalism-resistant covers.
1005A.3  Master Keying. Exterior and main entrance door locks shall not be on any master key system.
1005A.4  Entry Doors. Entry doors and door assemblies shall comply with the following:
1005A.4.1  Locks shall be combination 1/2-inch (12.7 mm) throw deadlatch with a minimum 1-inch (25.4 mm) throw deadbolt, and so constructed that both the deadlatch and deadbolt retract simultaneously by knob or lever. The deadbolt shall have the ability to be thrown from the exterior.
1005A.5  Exit Doors. All exit doors from corridors to exit stairways and from interior stairwells and interior fire escapes shall meet the requirements of Grade 20 of ANSI/ASTM F476 and be continuously locked from the outside.
	Locking devices shall be self-latching or self- locking and shall be openable from the interior with no special effort or knowledge or key. [See Section 1003.3.1.8.]
1005A.6  Glazed Openings. Glazed openings accessible from the ground level, by stairs, ramps, parking lots or garage areas, shall be with approved safety glass or burglar-resistant glazing as defined in Section 1002A. Protective iron grill work may only be installed where it does not interfere with the required means of egress.
1005A.7  Roof Openings. All skylights leading directly to interior corridors, stairwells, dwelling units and utility rooms shall be provided with burglary-resistant glazing as defined in Section 1002A.
1005A.8  Garage Doors. All doors of the sectional overhead, one-piece overhead, swing or sliding types used on the exterior of a building shall conform to the following standards:
1005A.8.1  Panels of wood doors shall be at least 5/16-inch (7.94 mm) thick, except sectional overhead doors may have panels 1/4-inch (6.35 mm) thick.
1005A.8.2  Aluminum doors shall be constructed of at least 0.025-inch (0.635 mm) thick sheet aluminum, riveted, welded or bolted to framing members at least 12 inches (305 mm) on center.
1005A.8.3  Steel doors shall be constructed of at least 0.023-inch (0.584 mm) thick galvanized steel, riveted, welded or bolted to framing members at least 12 inches (305 mm) on center.
1005A.8.4  Fiberglass sectional doors shall be constructed of formed fiberglass panels of density of at least 5 1/2 oz. per square foot (1678 g/m2), pressure sealed to aluminum framing members.
1005A.8.5  Overhead doors shall be made lockable by either:
	For doors 16 feet (4877 mm) wide or less, a slide bolt – minimum diameter 3/8-inch (9.5 mm) minimum projection 1-1/2 inches (38 mm) – locking into the door jamb, capable of utilizing a padlock with a minimum 9/32-inch (7.14 mm) shackle. For doors over 16 feet (4877 mm) wide, except sectional doors, two slide bolt locks shall be required. Slide bolt assemblies shall be attached to the door with bolts which are nonremovable from the exterior.
	Electrical operator with automatic locking capability, either inherently in the mechanism or as an added feature.
	By at least one single-bar lock mounted in the end stile, with locking bar or bolt extending into the receiving guide a minimum of 1 inch (25.4 mm), and with minimum five-pin tumble operation. For doors over 16 feet (4877 mm) wide, except sectional doors, two single-bar locks shall be required.
	Center locking-handle devices will require actuating straps to be enclosed by rigid conduits securely fastened to the door.
1005A.8.6  Swinging garage doors shall be lockable by a cylinder deadbolt.
1005A.8.7  Doors operated by electrical means shall be provided with manual release capability from the interior, requiring no special effort or knowledge or key.
1005A.8.8  Manually operated chain-driven garage doors shall require approval of the Authority Having Jurisdiction.
Chapter 11
RESERVED
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 11A
HOUSING ACCESSIBILITY
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 11B
ACCESSIBILITY TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS, PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS, COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS AND PUBLICLY FUNDED HOUSING
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 11C
STANDARDS FOR CARD READERS AT GASOLINE FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 12
INTERIOR ENVIRONMENT
SECTION 1203 – VENTILATION
1203.4  Add a second paragraph as follows:
	In other than high-rise buildings, public corridors, public hallways and other public spaces having openings into adjoining dwelling units, guest rooms, or congregate residences within R-1 and R-2 Occupancies, shall be provided with natural ventilation by means of openable exterior openings with an area of not less than 1/25 of the floor area of such rooms or spaces with a minimum of 4 square feet (0.37 m2).
1203.4  Add a third paragraph as follows:
	In lieu of required exterior openings for natural ventilation, a mechanical ventilating system may be provided. Such system shall be capable of providing two air changes per hour in public corridors, public hallways and other public spaces having openings into adjoining dwelling units, guest rooms, or congregate residences with R-2 occupancies, with a minimum of 7-1/2 cubic feet per minute (3-1/2 L/s) of outside air per occupant during such time as the building is occupied.
1203.5  Add a second paragraph as follows:
	Newly constructed buildings containing ten or more dwelling units located within the Potential Roadway Exposure Zone and having a PM 2.5 concentration at the proposed building site greater than 0.2 ug/m3 attributable to Local Roadway Traffic Sources, pursuant to Article 38 of the San Francisco Health Code shall have ventilation systems designed and constructed to remove >80% of ambient PM 2.5 from habitable areas of dwelling units.
SECTION 1205 – LIGHTING
1205.1  Add an exception after the first paragraph:
	Exception: Habitable rooms (excluding kitchens, home offices and media rooms) within a dwelling unit or congregate residence shall be provided with natural light by means of exterior glazed openings in accordance with Section 1205.2.
1205.2.2  Add the following paragraphs after the Exceptions:
	The depth of all structural projections, including balconies, decks, porches, rooms or roofs, shall not exceed 9 feet (2.134 m) when extending over exterior wall openings that provide required natural light or natural ventilation for spaces intended for human occupancy.
	The height of a balcony, deck or porch shall not be less than 7 feet (2.134 m) measured from the floor to the lowest projection above.
1205.4  Revise this section as follows:
1205.4  Stairway Illumination. Stairways within dwelling units and exterior stairways serving a dwelling unit shall have an illumination level on tread runs and landings of not less than 1 foot-candle (11 lux). Stairs in other occupancies shall be governed by Chapter 10.
	Exception: An artificial light source is not required at the top and bottom landing, provided an artificial light source is located directly over each stairway section. 
SECTION 1208 – INTERIOR SPACE DIMENSIONS
1208.4  Revise paragraph 1 this section and add paragraphs 5 and 6 of this section as follows:
1208.4  Efficiency Dwelling Units. Efficiency dwelling units shall comply with the following:
	1.	The unit shall be occupied by no more than two persons and have a living room of not less than 150 square feet of floor area. An additional 100 square feet (9.3 m2) of floor area shall be provided for each occupant of such unit in excess of two.
	2.	The unit shall be provided with a separate closet.
	3.	The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance and refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working space of not less than 30 inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code shall be provided.
	4.	The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
	5.	The total area of the unit shall be no less than 220 square feet, which area shall be measured from the inside perimeter of the exterior walls of the unit and shall include closets, bathrooms, kitchen, living, and sleeping areas.
	6.	Subsections 1-5 apply only to new construction of a structure or building. For purposes of the preceding sentence, new construction shall mean the creation of an entirely new structure or building and shall not apply to improvement, renovation, rehabilitation, or any other change to an existing structure or building. Existing buildings or structures are subject only to Subsections 1-4 except that for purposes of Subsection 1 the unit shall have a living room of not less than 220 square feet (20.4 m2) of floor area for up to two occupants.
Chapter 13
RESOURCE CONSERVATION (ENERGY EFFICIENCY)
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 13A
COMMERCIAL WATER CONSERVATION
Add chapter as follows:
SECTION 1301A – TITLE
	This chapter shall be known as the "Commercial Water Conservation Ordinance."
SECTION 1302A – INTENT
	It is the intent of this chapter to conserve existing water supplies by managing the overall demand for water in commercial buildings, including tourist hotels and motels, by requiring the installation of water conservation devices in commercial buildings upon the occurrence of specific events and in any event no later than January 1, 2017.
SECTION 1303A – DEFINITIONS
	For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms are defined as follows:
	ACCESSIBLE means there is sufficient space in which to install the specified water and energy conservation measure without significant alteration to the structure. For ducts, plenums or pipes, "accessible" shall mean all ductwork, plenums or pipes located in mechanical rooms, on roofs and around all air handling units. In addition, pipes located above movable ceiling panels shall be considered accessible, but not ducts or plenums.
	ACCESSIBLE ATTIC SPACE means a space between a ceiling joist and roof rafter where the vertical clear height from the top of the bottom chord of the truss or ceiling joist to the underside of the roof sheeting at the roof ridge is greater than 18 inches (957 mm).
	BUILDING OCCUPANCY means OCCUPANCY as defined in Chapter 3 of this code and shall also, where practicable, include the primary business activity of the property as classified by Standard Industrial Classification (SIC).
	BUILDING TYPE means the type of building construction, as defined in Chapter 6 of this code, and shall take into consideration whether the building is a high-rise building as defined by Section 403 of this code.
	COMMERCIAL BUILDING means any privately owned building except those residential buildings and portions of mixed residential- commercial buildings that are subject to the energy or water conservation requirements of Chapter 12 or Chapter 12A of the San Francisco Housing Code (Residential Energy Conservation Ordinance and Residential Water Conservation Ordinance).
	COST-EFFECTIVE means having a simple economic payback that does not exceed four years or the expected life of an energy conservation measure, whichever is shorter.
	ESTABLISHED CONTRACTOR'S COST means the contractor's fee, including labor and material, plus the engineer's fee to do the required work, provided that the engineer's fees do not exceed the schedule of fees provided by the Building Official.
	PERMIT APPLICANT means the person listed on the building permit application as the owner or lessee of the building.
	QUALIFIED INSPECTOR means an inspector defined in Section 1314A, who is authorized to perform a water conservation inspection.
	QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL means a person regularly engaged in the field of making repairs, adjustments and inspection of energy-using equipment contained in HVAC, lighting or service hot water systems.
	SERVICE HOT WATER means the supply of hot water for domestic or commercial purposes other than comfort heating.
	SIMPLE ECONOMIC PAYBACK means the time needed to recover a conservation investment on the basis of expected energy savings at current energy costs. Simple economic payback is expressed in years, and is calculated by dividing the established contractor's cost of a conservation measure by the estimated dollar savings in the first year. Available tax credits, incentives and future energy costs are not considered in the calculation.
	WATER CONSERVATION INSPECTION means inspection of a commercial building for compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
SECTION 1304A – RULES AND GUIDELINES
1304A.1  Adopt Rules. The Building Official, in cooperation with the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission and other advisors as the Building Official may deem appropriate, shall adopt reasonable rules and guidelines implementing the provisions and intent of this chapter and shall make them available to the public along with the informational brochure described in Section 1307A. The Building Official, in cooperation with the General Manager of the Public Utilities Commission, may amend these rules and guidelines from time to time after considering public input.
1304A.2  Inspection Procedures. The Building Official shall include coverage of this chapter's requirements in the Water Inspection Procedures established by the Department.
SECTION 1305A – CIVIL REMEDIES
1305A.1  Abatement. A commercial building shall constitute a nuisance under the terms of Section 102A of this code when the installation of a water conservation measure in a commercial building is required pursuant to this chapter and the water conservation measure has not been installed.
	The nuisance shall be abated by civil action pursuant to procedures set forth in Section 102A of this code for unsafe buildings; provided, however, that in no event shall any violation constitute a misdemeanor.
SECTION 1306A – REQUIREMENTS
1306A.1  Building Additions. For building additions where the sum of concurrent building permits by the same permit applicant would increase the floor area of the space in a building by more than ten percent, the permit applicant shall obtain a valid water conservation inspection and shall comply with the applicable water conservation measures required by this chapter as a condition for issuance of a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy by the Department upon completion of the addition.
1306A.1.1  Scope. This subsection shall apply to the entire building.
1306A.2  Building Alterations and Improvements.
1306A.2.1  For alterations or improvements where the total construction cost estimated in the building permit is greater than $150,000, as a condition for issuance of a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy, or final permit sign off, by the Department upon completion of the alterations or improvements, the permit applicant shall obtain a valid water conservation inspection and shall install the applicable water conservation devices required by this chapter that serve the specific area of alteration or improvement.
1306A.2.2  Notwithstanding Section 1306A.2.1, for any alterations or improvements to a room containing any of the water conservation devices identified in Section 1313A, as a condition for issuance of a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy or final permit sign off by the Department upon completion of the alterations or improvements, the permit applicant shall install the applicable water conservation devices required by this chapter in that room.
1306A.3  On or before January 1, 2017, all commercial buildings shall be in compliance with this chapter, and the owner or the owner's authorized representative shall cause a water conservation inspection to be completed, and shall have a certificate of compliance on file with the Department for the entire building, or the entire portion of the mixed residential and commercial building that is subject to the required water compliance measures identified in Section 1313A.
SECTION 1307A – INFORMATIONAL BROCHURE
1307A.1  The Department shall make available to the public an informational brochure specifying the water conservation requirements.
SECTION 1308A – POSTPONEMENTS OF REQUIREMENTS
1308A.1  Postponement for Demolition. The duty of an owner or permit applicant to comply with inspection and water conservation requirements applicable to any portion of a building subject to this chapter shall be postponed for one year from the date of issuance of a demolition permit for said building. If the building is demolished and a certificate of completion is issued by the Department before the end of the one-year postponement, the requirements of this chapter shall not apply. If the building is not demolished after the expiration of one year, the provisions of this chapter shall apply, subject to appeal, even though the demolition permit is still in effect or a new demolition permit has been issued.
SECTION 1309A – EARLY COMPLIANCE WITH WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES
1309A.1  Early Compliance. To encourage early compliance with the requirements of this chapter, compliance pursuant to Section 1311A may be completed at any time before compliance would otherwise be required. In the event of early compliance, a water conservation inspection shall be completed and a certificate of compliance shall be filed with the Department in accordance with Section 1311A.
SECTION 1310A – WATER CONSERVATION INSPECTIONS
1310A.1  Inspections. A water conservation inspection which satisfies the requirements of this chapter shall be performed as required by this chapter.
SECTION 1311A – PROOF OF COMPLIANCE WITH WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES
1311A.1  Inspection Form. The Department shall provide standardized forms, that may be paper and/or electronic suitable for conducting a valid water conservation inspection and certifying compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The inspection form shall be completed and signed by a qualified inspector, furnished to the permit applicant, building owner or the owner's authorized representative, and submitted to the Department in accordance with this Section.
1311A.2  Certificate of Compliance. When all of the water conservation requirements have been met, a certificate of compliance shall be signed and submitted to the Department.
1311A.3  Public Records. Water conservation inspection results and certificates of compliance shall be public information, shall be available for inspection by any interested person during regular business hours at the Department, and may be made available electronically via the internet.
1311A.4  Fees. Reasonable fees may be required to pay for, but not exceed, the costs of implementing this chapter. Such fees shall be established by the Board of Supervisors upon recommendation of the Director of the Department and shall include:
	1.	The cost of inspections performed by the Department;
	2.	The cost of the appeal process and the request for exemption process;
	3.	The cost of filing and processing documents at the Department;
	4.	The cost of printing forms and informational brochures by the Department;
	5.	Other expenses incurred by the City and County of San Francisco in implementing this Chapter.
1311A.4.1  Fee schedule. See Building Code Section 110A, Table 1A-N for the applicable fees, once established.
1311A.4.2  Fee review. The Director of the Department of Building Inspection shall cause an annual report of fees to be made and filed with the Controller as set forth in Section 3.17-2 of the San Francisco Administrative Code. The Controller shall review the report and file it with the Board of Supervisors along with a proposed ordinance readjusting the fee rates as necessary.
SECTION 1312A – APPEALS FROM RESULTS OF A WATER CONSERVATION INSPECTION OR REQUEST FOR EXEMPTION
1312A.1  Notice of Appeal. Any person with an interest in the property subject to a water conservation inspection who contests the determination of a qualified inspector regarding required water conservation measures may appeal said decision to the Director within ten working days from the date the completed inspection form was filed with the Department. The notice of appeal shall state, clearly and concisely, the grounds upon which the appeal is based. The burden of proof shall be on the applicant to demonstrate that the water conservation measure is not required under this chapter. The determination of the Director may be appealed to the Building Inspection Commission pursuant to the appeal procedures established in the Administrative Code Chapter 77.
1312A.2  Exemptions. Any person with an interest in the property subject to a water conservation inspection who claims an exemption pursuant to Section 1313A.3 and 1313A.4 of this chapter may request a determination of exemption from the Director by filing the request and stating the basis for the claim. The burden of proof shall be on the applicant to demonstrate the qualifications for the exemption. The determination of the Director may be appealed to the Building Inspection Commission pursuant to the appeal procedures established in the Administrative Code Chapter 77. Any appeal or request for exemption to the Director pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by payment of a filing fee, pursuant to Section 1216 of the San Francisco Housing Code.
SECTION 1313A – REQUIRED WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES
	The following water conservation measures are required for commercial buildings:
1313A.1  Showerheads. Replace all showerheads having a maximum flow rate exceeding 2.5 gallons (9.46 liters) per minute, with showerheads not exceeding the maximum flow rate established by the California Energy Commission, as set forth in the Appliance Efficiency Regulations, California Code of Regulations, Title 20, Sections 1601 to 1608, as it may be amended. Showers shall have no more than one showerhead per valve. For purposes of this subsection, the term "showerheads" includes rain heads, rain tiles, or any other fitting that transmits water for purposes of showering.
1313A.2  Faucet Aerators. Replace all faucets and faucet aerators having a maximum flow rate exceeding 2.2 gallons per minute at a water pressure of 60 pounds per square inch, with plumbing fittings not exceeding the maximum flow rate established by the California Energy Commission, as set forth in the Appliance Efficiency Regulations, California Code of Regulations, Title 20, Sections 1601 to 1608, as it may be amended. Health-care facilities that are required by this chapter to install faucet aerators may satisfy that requirement by installing other flow restricting devices, such as laminar flow control devices.
1313A.3  Water Closets. Replace all water closets that have a rated water consumption exceeding 1.6 gallons per flush with fixtures not exceeding the rated maximum water consumption established in the San Francisco Plumbing Code Chapter 4, Section 402.2, as it may be amended. An owner of a commercial building may request an exemption from replacing a water closet in the building if the replacement would detract from the historical integrity of the building, as determined by the Director of the Department of Building Inspection pursuant to the California Historic Building Code and Section 1312A.2.
1313A.4  Urinals. Replace all urinals that have a flow rate exceeding one gallon per flush with fixtures not exceeding the maximum flow rate established in the San Francisco Plumbing Code, Section 402.3, as it may be amended. An owner of a commercial building may request an exemption from replacing a urinal in the building if the replacement would detract from the historical integrity of the building, as determined by the Director of the Department of Building Inspection pursuant to the California Historical Building Code and Section 1312A.2.
1313A.5  Leak Repair. All water leaks shall be located and repaired. To determine the existence of leaks, the following is required.
	1.	Visual inspection or water meter registration. If water meter registration is used, compliance is achieved if there is no meter movement for ten minutes while all fixtures are shut off.
	2.	All tank type water closets shall be tested with leak detector tablets or dye to detect slow valve leaks and all flushometer type fixtures shall be visually checked for proper operation with respect to timing and leaks.
SECTION 1314A – WATER CONSERVATION INSPECTIONS
1314A.1  Inspections. Inspections to determine compliance with the water conservation requirements of this chapter may be conducted by one of the following:
	1.	An authorized inspector of the Department;
	2.	A private inspector authorized by the Building Official pursuant to established rules and guidelines;
	3.	A private inspector hired by the Department, or Public Utilities Commission, on a contractual basis under terms and fees to be recommended by the Departments and established by the Board of Supervisors.
1314A.2  Qualified Inspector Duties. The duties of a qualified inspector shall be as follows:
	1.	To inspect portions of a building that are subject to this chapter to determine whether the water conservation standards specified in Section 1313A have been met and, if met, to sign a certificate of compliance, pursuant to Section 1311A, and to furnish it to the permit applicant, building owner or owner's agent;
	2.	To record on an official inspection form, pursuant to Section 1311A, all measures required by this chapter for which the building is in noncompliance, and to sign the inspection form and furnish it to the permit applicant, building owner or owner's agent.
1314A.3  Private Water Inspectors. Private inspectors shall be required to demonstrate financial responsibility by being insured and / or bonded in amounts to be determined by the Building Official.
1314A.4  Conflict of Interest. No authorized inspector may conduct a water inspection on any building in which that inspector has a financial interest. For the purposes of this section, an inspector shall be deemed to have a financial interest in a building if the inspector:
	1.	Is an owner of the building or the property upon which the building is located in full or in part;
	2.	Is a full- or part-time employee of the building or its owners;
	3.	Is regularly placed on the building staff by a company that provides building engineering, operations and maintenance, or other building services to the property.
1314A.5  Inspector as Employee. No inspector may approve a certificate of water conservation compliance for a building where that inspector is an employee or officer of a company that performed construction or repair work required by this chapter.
1314A.6  Limitation. Water conservation inspections are intended to enforce the provisions of this chapter only, and are not intended to determine compliance or noncompliance with any other portions of this code.
Chapter 13B
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS RECOVERY PROGRAM
Add chapter as follows:
SECTION 1301B – TITLE
	This chapter shall be known as the "Construction and Demolition Debris Recovery Program."
SECTION 1302B – RECOVERY OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS
	Under the requirements set forth herein and in Chapter 14 of the Environment Code, all construction and demolition debris in amounts of one cubic yard or greater generated in the course of a construction or demolition project must be transported off the site by a registered transporter, unless transported by the owner of the site, and handled, processed and otherwise managed by a registered facility for recovery of the materials. All persons subject to these requirements, including an applicant for any building or demolition permit shall comply with the requirements for construction and demolition debris recovery set forth in Chapter 14 of the Environment Code.
SECTION 1303B – DEFINITIONS
	"Construction and demolition debris" shall mean building materials and solid waste generated from construction and demolition activities, including, but not limited to, fully-cured asphalt, concrete, brick, rock, soil, lumber, gypsum wallboard, cardboard and other associated packaging, roofing material, ceramic tile, carpeting, fixtures, plastic pipe, metals, tree stumps, and other vegetative matter resulting from land clearing and landscaping for construction, deconstruction, demolition or land developments. This term does not include refuse regulated under the 1932 Refuse Collection and Disposal Initiative Ordinance or sections of the Municipal Code that implement the provisions of that ordinance; materials from the public right-of-way; or, unless specified in Chapter 14 of the Environment Code, materials source separated for reuse or recycling. Hazardous waste, as defined in California Health and Safety Code section 25100 et seq., as amended, is not Construction and Demolition Debris for purposes of this Chapter.
	"Registered Transporter" or "Registered Facility" shall mean a person who holds a valid registration issued by the Director of the Department of the Environment pursuant to Chapter 14 of the Environment Code. "Transporter" does not include a person that owns and operates only vehicles with no more than two axles and no more than two tires per axle.
SECTION 1304B – PERMIT CONDITION
	The provisions of Chapter 14 of the Environment Code and any approvals or conditions imposed in writing by the Department of the Environment are conditions of the permit issued by the Department under Section 106A.1, and a violation of Chapter 14 or such approvals or conditions shall be deemed non-compliance with the permit.
SECTION 1305B – PERMIT NOTIFICATION
	Permit application materials shall bear notice of and reference to the above requirements and the owner's responsibility for compliance with such requirements.
Chapter 13C
[RESERVED]
Add chapter as follows:
Note: For Green Building Requirements, see the San Francisco Green Building Code.
Chapter 13D
COMMERCIAL LIGHTING EFFICIENCY
Add chapter as follows:
	The City and County of San Francisco adopts the following Chapter 13D for the purpose of reducing public demand for electricity and the associated detriment to the environment of energy production and delivery by requiring commercial buildings to install or adopt more energy efficient lighting measures.
SECTION 1301D – TITLE
	This Chapter shall be known as the "Commercial Lighting Efficiency Ordinance."
SECTION 1302D – PURPOSE
	The purpose of this Chapter is to reduce public demand for electricity and the associated detriment to the environment of energy production and delivery by requiring commercial buildings to install or adopt more energy efficient lighting measures.
SECTION 1303D – SCOPE
	The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all privately owned non-residential buildings, including school facilities, the non-residential portions of mixed-use commercial and residential buildings, tourist hotels, and the common areas of residential hotels and multiple-unit residential buildings, all as herein defined.
EXCEPTIONS:
	The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to:
	1.	Residential buildings and residential hotels, except that it shall apply to their common areas.
	2.	The residential portions of mixed-use commercial and residential buildings, except that it shall apply to their common areas.
SECTION 1304D – DEFINITIONS
	For the purpose of this Chapter, certain terms are defined as follows:
	COMMERCIAL BUILDING is any privately owned building that is occupancy group A, B, E, F, H, I, L, M or S as defined in this Code and any tourist hotels, as herein defined. When a building is designated for more than one type of occupancy, "Commercial Building" shall mean those spaces within the mixed use building designated as A, B, E, F, H, I, L, M or S or tourist hotel, as herein defined. Except for tourist hotels as herein defined, "Commercial Building" shall include only the common areas of any R ("residential") occupancy buildings for the common areas of any R ("residential") occupancy portions of mixed use buildings.
	COMMON AREA is any area, space or room of a building that is made available to the general public as either a client or guest.
	DIRECTOR is the Director of the Department of Building Inspection, or his or her designee
	EXIT SIGNS are signs located and illuminated as required by the Building Code
	LINEAR FLUORESCENT LAMP is a "tube" or "bulb" formed in a straight shape, as distinguished from a circular or u-shape, but not including linear specialty lamps such as black lights.
	LUMENAIRE is an interior or exterior complete lighting unit, including internally or externally illuminated signs, consisting of the lamp and the parts designed to distribute the light, to protect the lamp, and to connect the lamp to the power supply, but not including illuminated utilization equipment or exit signs as defined herein.
	OCCUPANCY SENSOR CONTROL DEVICE is a device that automatically turns off a luminaires or series of luminaires not more than 30 minutes after it senses that the area is vacated.
	TOURIST HOTEL is any residential building, or portion thereof, which is occupied as a hotel, motel or inn and which has a certificated of use for tourist occupancy, or any portion of a residential building which is converted to tourist hotel use pursuant to the Residential Hotel Conversion Ordinance (S.F. Administrative Code, Article 41) or other City law.
	UTILIZATION EQUIPMENT is commercial, retail or industrial equipment, including but not limited to refrigeration equipment, fully enclosed retail display cases, vending machines, printing equipment or conveyors, which uses 4-foot or 8-foot linear fluorescent lamps as an integrated part of such equipment. "Utilization Equipment" shall not include furniture or workstations.
SECTION 1305D – COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS
1305D.1  Compliance Deadline. No later than December 31, 2011 ("Compliance Deadline"), the owner of each building subject to this Chapter shall self-certify that the entire building meets the standards specified in this Chapter 13D, and if the building is not certified, the building owner shall make such repairs as may be required to conform to this Chapter.
1305D.2  Stay of Compliance Deadline. The Compliance Deadline stated in Section 1305D.1 shall be stayed for up to two years form the date of an application for a demolition permit for any building subject to this Chapter. If the building is demolished and a Certificate of Completion issued by the Department before the end of the two-year postponement, the requirements of this Chapter shall not apply. If the building is not demolished after the expiration of two year, the provisions of this Chapter shall apply even though the demolition permit is till in effect or a new demolition permit has been issued.
SECTION 1306D – LIGHTING EFFICIENCY MEASURES
1306D.1  Mercury Content. The mercury content of each 4-foot linear fluorescent lamp installed after the Compliance Deadline in a luminaires in a building subject to this Chapter shall not exceed 5 mg. The mercury content of each 8-foot linear fluorescent lamp installed after the Compliance Deadline in a luminaires in a building subject to this Chapter shall not exceed 10 mg.
1306D.2  Energy Efficiency. The lamp and ballast system in each luminaires that utilizes one or more 4-foot of 8-foot linear fluorescent lamps to provide illumination in a building subject to this Chapter must meet at least one of the following requirements:
	1.	The lamp and ballast system emits 81 or more lumens per watt of electricity consumed.
	2.	The luminaires is controlled by an occupancy sensor control device that does not control an area in the building of more than 250 square feet.
	3.	The luminaires is fitted with a lighting efficiency measure approved by the Director as equivalent to the measures in subsection (1) or (2).
	4.	The Director finds, based on the facts of the particular building and luminaires, that the energy savings from installing lighting efficiency measures meeting the requirements of this Section will be so insignificant over the life of the luminaires that the measure is not cost efficient.
	5.	If the owner of a Commercial Building elects to meet the requirements of this Section 1306D.2 with measures that require permits, such permits shall comply with all other applicable requirements of this Code and all other applicable state and local laws.
SECTION 1307D – ENFORCEMENT
	Any building maintained in violation of this Chapter shall constitute a public nuisance under the terms of Section 102A of this Code and such nuisance may be abated pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 102A of this code for unsafe buildings.
SECTION 1308D – RULES
	The director, after consulting with the Department of the Environment, and in accordance with Section 104A.2.1 of this Code, shall adopt, and may amend, reasonable rules, guidelines and forms for implementing the provisions and intent of this Chapter.
SECTION 1309D – UNDERTAKING FOR THE GENERAL WELFARE
	In undertaking the enforcement of this Chapter, the City and County of San Francisco is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury.
SECTION 1310D – PREEMPTION
	Nothing in this Chapter shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any power or duty in conflict with any federal or state law or regulation.
SECTION 1311D – SEVERABILITY
	If any provision or clause of this Chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional or to be otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions, and clauses of this Chapter are declared to be severable.
Chapter 14
EXTERIOR WALLS
SECTION 1403 – PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS
1403.8  Add a section as follows:
1403.8  Projections and Appendages. Provisions shall be made at the outer edge of all projections and appendages to control rainwater backflow under the projection. Ventilation shall be provided for all enclosed spaces of exposed soffits, bays and other projections in wood framed construction.
	Where an uncovered balcony or deck with an impervious surface exceeds 200 square feet (18.58 m2) in area, drainage shall be conveyed directly to a building drain or building sewer or be conveyed to an approved alternate location based on approved geotechnical and engineering design.
Chapter 15
ROOF ASSEMBLIES AND ROOFTOP STRUCTURES
SECTION 1501 – GENERAL
1501.1  Add a second paragraph as follows:
	For qualified historical buildings or properties, see Section 3409.
SECTION 1503 – WEATHER PROTECTION
1503.4  Add a second paragraph as follows:
	All storm- or casual water from roof areas which total more than 200 square feet (18.58 m2) shall drain or be conveyed directly to the building drain or storm drain or to an approved alternate location based on approved geotechnical and engineering design. Such drainage shall not be directed to flow onto adjacent property or over public sidewalks. Building projections not exceeding 12 inches (305 mm) in width are exempt from drainage requirements without area limitations.
SECTION 1505 – FIRE CLASSIFICATION
1505.1  Revise the first sentence as follows:
1505.1  General. Roof assemblies shall be divided into the classes defined below. Class A or B roof assemblies and roof coverings required to be listed by this section shall be tested in accordance with ASTM E 108 or UL 790. [ß]
1505.1  Add the following at the end of the first paragraph:
Class B or better roof coverings shall be used on all buildings.
1505.1  Add the following second exception:
	2.	Detached accessory structures with a roof of less than 200 square feet (18.58 m2) may have roof coverings of Class A, B or C.
Table 1505.1  Revise the table as follows:
TABLE 1505.1 – MINIMUM ROOF COVERING CLASSIFICATION FOR TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION
IAIBIIAIIBIIIAIIIBIVVAVBBBBB BBBBB[ß]
SECTION 1507 – REQUIREMENTS FOR ROOF COVERINGS
1507.8  Add the following sentence at the end of the paragraph:
Untreated wood shingles shall not be permitted.
1507.9  Add the following sentence at the end of the paragraph:
Untreated wood shakes shall not be permitted.
SECTION 1509 – ROOFTOP STRUCTURES
1509.2.2  Add the following sentence at the end of this section:
Penthouses shall be of a size no larger than the minimum clearances required for the mechanical equipment to be installed or no larger than the vertical shaft opening in the roof.
1509.10  Add the following section:
1509.10  Occupied Roof decks. May be constructed of wood when the following conditions are met:
	1.	The occupied roof deck is less than 500 square feet (46.45 m2) in area.
	2.	The deck boards are spaced not greater than 1/8 inch (3.2 mm) apart.
	3.	Any open space around the perimeter between the deck and the roof surface shall be enclosed to within 1 inch (25.4 mm) of the roof surface.
1509.10
	4.	The deck is constructed of fire-retardant- treated wood approved for exterior use, or the deck is constructed of 2-inch (50.8 mm) nominal all heart redwood. Guardrails and fences may be constructed of any material permitted by this code.
	5.	The deck is installed on top of a Class A or B fire-resistive roof assembly. The deck shall not be considered part of such roof assembly.
	 6.	Building construction type 3, 4, or 5.
Chapter 16
STRUCTURAL DESIGN
SECTION 1604 – GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
1604.11  Add the following section:
1604.11  Minimum Lateral Force for Existing Buildings.
1604.11.1  General. This section is applicable to existing buildings when invoked by Section 3401.10. This section may be used as a standard for voluntary upgrades.
	An existing building or structure which has been brought into compliance with the lateral force resistance requirements of the San Francisco Building Code in effect on or after May 21, 1973, shall be deemed to comply with this section except when a vertical extension or other alterations are to be made which would increase the mass or reduce the seismic resistance capacity of the building or structure.
1604.11.2  Wind forces. Buildings and structures shall be capable of resisting wind forces as prescribed in Section 1609.
1604.11.3  Seismic forces. Buildings and structures shall comply with the applicable provisions of Sections 1613, except that, when compliance with this section is required by Section 3401.10 then structures and elements may be designed for seismic forces of not less than 75 percent of those given in Section 1613, and the building separation limitations of Section ASCE 7-10 Section 12.12.3 do not apply. 
	When upper floors are exempted from compliance by Section 3401.10, the lateral forces generated by their masses shall be included in the analysis and design of the lateral force resisting systems for the strengthened floor. Such forces may be applied to the floor level immediately above the topmost strengthened floor and distributed in that floor in a manner consistent with the construction and layout of the exempted floor.
	In lieu of meeting the specific requirements of this section, an alternative lateral analysis procedure incorporating inelastic behavior may be submitted and approved in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the Building Official pursuant to Section 104A.2.1.
1604.11.4  Design values for existing materials. The incorporation of existing materials, construction and detailing into the designed lateral force system shall be permitted when approved by the Building Official. Minimum quality levels and maximum load and stress values shall comply with Table 16C-D of this code, Tables 8-8-A and 8-8-B of the State Historical Building Code, or with other rules, regulations and standards adopted by the Building Official pursuant to Section 104A.2.1.
1604.12  Add the following section: 
1604.12  Earthquake Recording Instrumentation. The City and County of San Francisco adopts Appendix L. 
SECTION 1607 – LIVE LOADS
TABLE 1607.1 – MINIMUM UNIFORMLY DISTRIBUTED LIVE LOADS AND CONCENTRATED LIVE LOADS
Table 1607.1  Add the following footnote o to Occupancy or Use 29, Sidewalks and Driveways.
	o	Driveways subject to vehicle loading shall be designed in accordance with the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) HS-20 Standard Specification for Highways and Bridges. Sidewalks subject to vehicle loading shall be designed for a concentrated load of 10,000 pounds placed upon any space 2½ feet (762 mm) square, wherever this load upon an otherwise unloaded sidewalk would produce stresses greater than those caused by the uniform load of 250 psf required therefor.
Chapter 16A
STRUCTURAL DESIGN
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 16B
EARTHQUAKE HAZARD REDUCTION IN UNREINFORCED MASONRY BEARING WALL BUILDINGS
Add chapter as follows:
[Note: The time limits for compliance with the provisions of chapters 16B and 16C have passed, but the ordinance and time limits therein are still in effect.]
SECTION 1601B – PURPOSE
	The purpose of this chapter is to promote public safety and welfare by reducing the risk of death or injury that may result from the effects of an earthquake on existing unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings.
	The provisions of this chapter are intended as minimum standards for structural seismic resistance for earthquake ground shaking and are established primarily to reduce the risk of life loss or injury. Compliance with these provisions will not necessarily prevent loss of life or injury, or prevent earthquake damage to rehabilitated structures, or protect against the release of hazardous materials, or protect the function of essential facilities. These provisions are not intended to mitigate ground failure hazards such as liquefaction. The Community Safety Element of the General Plan of the City and County of San Francisco should be consulted for areas most susceptible to ground failure.
	Time limits are given for owners of unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings to submit an inventory of each building and an evaluation of the degree of risk presented by the building. Priorities and time limits are established for work to be completed.
	Requirements for seismic strengthening of unreinforced buildings are contained in Chapter 16C.
SECTION 1602B – SCOPE
	The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing buildings having one or more bearing walls of unreinforced masonry as defined in Chapter 16C.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	Buildings housing Group R Occupancies containing less than five dwelling units or guest rooms and used solely for residential purposes.
	2.	Buildings accessory to and on the same lot as those described in Exception 1.
	3.	Buildings which have been brought into full compliance with the requirements of Section 3401.10 in effect on or after May 21, 1973.
	Compliance with the provisions of Chapters 16B and 16C does not supersede the requirement for compliance with Section 3401.10 when otherwise required under Chapter 34 of this code.
	A permit issued solely for compliance with any of the procedures of Chapters 16B and 16C of this code shall not be considered "substantial change" or "structural work" as defined in Chapter 34 and compliance with Section 3401.10 will not be required.
SECTION 1603B – DEFINITIONS
	For the purpose of Chapters 16B and 16C, certain terms are defined as follows:
	BOLTS-PLUS is the installation of shear and tension anchors at the roof and floors and, when required, the bracing of the unreinforced masonry bearing walls upon evaluation of the height-to-thickness ratio of these walls.
	POOR SOIL is all soil lying bayward of the line indicating the landward limit of Bay Mud deposits as shown on the U.S. Geological Survey Map MF-1376, title "Map Showing the 200-feet thickness contour of surficial deposits and the landward limit of Bay Mud deposits of San Francisco, California," by William B. Joyner, 1982.
		EXCEPTION: A building need not be considered as being located on poor soil when a subsurface exploration demonstrates that the soil is not underlain by Bay Mud.
	UNREINFORCED MASONRY BEARING WALL BUILDING is a building or structure having at least one unreinforced masonry bearing wall.
SECTION 1604B – COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS
1604B.1  General. The owner of each unreinforced masonry bearing wall building within the scope of this chapter and Chapter 16C shall cause a structural analysis to be made of the building by a registered civil or structural engineer or licensed architect, and, if the building does not meet the minimum standards specified in this code except as provided for in Chapters 16B and 16C, the owner shall cause the building to be structurally altered to conform to such standards or cause the building to be demolished pursuant to the program implementation schedule set forth.
1604B.2  Program Implementation. The requirements stated in Section 1604B.1 above shall be accomplished by submitting to the Building Official the following:
1604B.2.1  Inventory form. The owner is required to submit to the Department, within the time limits set forth in Table 16B-A, a properly completed inventory form, signed and sealed by the owner's civil or structural engineer or architect. See Section 110A, Table 1A-S for the applicable fee for the review of the inventory form. A failure to respond within the time limits set forth in Table 16B-A is a violation of this code.
1604B.2.2  Risk assessment.
1604B.2.2.1  General. When filling out the required information on the inventory form, the owner's architect or civil or structural engineer shall assign to the building a relative level of risk depending upon the occupancy, soil conditions at the site and the density of the population exposed.
1604B.2.2.2  Level of risk assigned.
	1.	Level 1 buildings are buildings containing occupancy Group A Occupancies with an occupant load of 300 or more, or Group E Occupancies, and those buildings greater than three stories in height which are located on poor soil.
	2.	Level 2 buildings are all non-Level 1 buildings which are located on poor soil in the Downtown, North of Market/Civic Center, South of Market, South of Market Residential and Chinatown Unreinforced Masonry Building Study Areas as delineated on Figure 16B-1.
	3.	Level 3 buildings are buildings in the above areas which are not located on poor soil and buildings located on poor soil outside the above areas.
	4.	Level 4 buildings are all other unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings.
1604B.2.3  Engineering reports. The owner shall engage a registered civil or structural engineer or licensed architect to prepare an engineering report on the building when:
	1.	An owner desires to demolish a qualified historical building or any building containing a nonexempt Group R Occupancy rather than retrofit the building, and a report is requested by the Building Official or the Director of the Planning Department; or
	2.	The Bolts-plus level of strengthening is proposed; or
	3.	Strengthening to comply with the State Historical Building Code is proposed; or
	4.	The owner believes the building complies with Chapters 16B and 16C without any further alteration.
	The engineering report shall detail applicable retrofit requirements of the least restrictive retrofit procedure for which the building qualifies. The required retrofit measures shall be developed schematically, and a conceptual construction cost estimate shall be included. If the Bolts-plus level of strengthening defined above and described in Exception 1 to Section 1609C.2 is proposed, the necessary measures for compliance with the Special Procedure of Section 1611C shall also be designated, and a second cost estimate for this option shall also be included in the report. If the engineering report demonstrates that no deficiencies exist, and the report is approved by the Department, the structure will be considered to conform to the requirements of this chapter. Except as noted in 1. above, the report shall be submitted not later than the date when the application for the building permit to either strengthen or demolish the building would otherwise be required. The format and content of the engineering report shall comply with the provisions of rules and regulations to be issued by the Building Official pursuant to Section 104A.2.1 after consultation with the Seismic Safety Retrofit Bond Program Board. See Section 110A, Table 1A-S for the applicable fee for the review of the engineering report.
1604B.2.4  Application for building permit. The owner shall submit to the Department an application for a structural alteration permit accompanied by structural plans, specifications and calculations for the proposed mitigation solution or a permit application to demolish the building. Time limits for submission of the application and for permit processing and approval are established in Table 16B-A.
1604B.2.5  Commencement and completion of construction. Construction work shall commence and a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy or final inspection of work under a demolition permit shall be obtained within the time limits set forth in Table 16B-A.
1604B.2.6  Transfer of title. No transfer of title shall alter the time limits for compliance set forth in Table 16B-A.
SECTION 1605B – ADMINISTRATION
1605B.1  Service of Notice. The Building Official shall, not later than February 15, 1993, issue a notice to comply with Section 1604B.1 to the owner of each building known by the Department to be within the scope of this chapter. The notice shall be accompanied by an informational letter or brochure and a sample inventory form. If, on or before February 15, 1993, an owner of an unreinforced masonry bearing wall building has knowledge that he or she owns such a building, then failure of the Building Official to issue a notice or failure of the owner to receive such a notice shall not relieve the owner of the obligation to comply with the provisions of Chapters 16B and 16C within the time limits set forth in Table 16B-A. An owner is presumed to have knowledge that he or she owns an unreinforced masonry bearing wall building if the building is on the inventory list of potential hazardous unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings required by Section 8877(a) of the California Government Code.
	For buildings not known to the Department to be unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings and whose owners have no knowledge that the buildings are unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings, the time limits set forth in Table 16B-A shall commence upon the owners having actual or constructive knowledge that their buildings are unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings.
1605B.2  Appeal from Notice. The owner or the owner's agent may appeal the Building Official's notice to the Board of Examiners in accordance with Section 105A.1.
1605B.3  Processing and Recordation. Within 30 days of receipt of the inventory form, the Building Official shall review it and either approve it as submitted or reject it and return it for correction. Inventory forms returned for correction shall be revised by the owner's architect or engineer and returned to the Department within 30 days of the date of the Department's initial rejection. The Building Official shall cause to be recorded with the Assessor-Recorder's Office a notice of the requirement for structural alteration or demolition and the inventory form.  The Building Official may cause such a notice to be recorded upon expiration of the time limits for submittal of the inventory form as stated in Table 16B-A.
1605B.4  Enforcement. Whenever an inventory form has not been submitted or a notice issued by the Building Official to structurally alter or demolish an unreinforced masonry bearing wall building has not been complied with within the time limits set forth in Table 16B-A, the Building Official shall have the power to abate the building in accordance with Section 102A.
1605B.5  Removal from Inventory. After all of the retrofit work required by this chapter and Chapter 16C has been completed in any building to the satisfaction of the Building Official and a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy has been issued in accordance with Section 109A, or after a final inspection of building demolition work has been made, or if the Building Official finds that no retrofit work is required, the Building Official shall remove that building from the inventory list of potentially hazardous unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings required by Section 8877(a) of the California Government Code. The Building Official shall thereupon cause to be filed with the Assessor-Recorder's Office a release of any notice or Abatement Order recorded under Section 1605B.3 or 1605B.4. Additionally, the Department shall furnish to each owner upon satisfactory completion of a retrofit a sign, on a standard Department form, of the same size as that required by California Government Code Section 8875.8, stating "This building has been seismically retrofitted to reduce the risk of death or injury in the event of a major earthquake pursuant to Chapters 16B and 16C of the San Francisco Building Code." The sign shall also indicate the retrofit procedure used and shall bear the signature of the Building Official. The posting of the sign shall be at the option of the owner.
1605B.6  Voluntary Seismic Strengthening. The owner of a building that is exempt from compliance with this chapter may voluntarily retrofit the building using the procedures for seismic strengthening set forth in Chapter 16C.
1605B.7  Application of Future Retrofitting Legislation. It is the present intent of the Board of Supervisors that, absent a compelling public safety necessity, buildings strengthened pursuant to Chapter 16C will not be subject to future mandatory seismic retrofitting legislation adopted by the Board.
1605B.8  Phased Strengthening. Other provisions of this code notwithstanding, an unreinforced masonry bearing wall building may be strengthened in phases under multiple alteration permits, provided:
	1.	A complete structural analysis accompanied by plans, specifications and calculations for the proposed mitigation solution is submitted to the Department with the first alteration permit application; and
	2.	A phasing program is submitted to and approved by the Department as part of the review of the first alteration permit application; and
	3.	Each subsequent alteration permit application clearly indicates the further work proposed and the work completed to date; and
	4.	The engineer or architect responsible for the structural design for the strengthening program provides structural observation in accordance with Section 1704.5; and
	5.	All of the required strengthening work is completed within the time limits set forth in Table 16B-A.
	This chapter does not require alteration of existing electrical, plumbing, mechanical, fire protection or life-safety systems which are in compliance with the code in effect at the time of their construction or installation. The application of Section 3401.9 relating to homeless shelters does not waive the requirement for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and Chapter 16C within the time limits set forth in Table 16B-A. This section does not exempt any building from compliance with the requirements of State or Federal disability access regulations.
SECTION 1606B – EXISTING UTILITY, FIRE PROTECTION, LIFE-SAFETY SYSTEMS, HOMELESS SHELTERS AND DISABLED ACCESS REQUIREMENTS
	This chapter does not require alteration of existing electrical, plumbing, mechanical, fire protection or life-safety systems which are in compliance with the code in effect at the time of their construction or installation. The application of Section 3401.9 relating to homeless shelters does not waive the requirement for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and Chapter 16C within the time limits set forth in Table 16B-A. This section does not exempt any building from compliance with the requirements of State or Federal disability access regulations.
SECTION 1607B – ENERGY CONSERVATION
	The provisions of California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 6, the California Energy Code, San Francisco Housing Code, Chapter 12 (the Residential Energy Conservation Ordinance) are not applicable to buildings altered as required by this chapter, unless the alteration work also constitutes a change in use as defined in Section 3408, or increases the conditioned space or alters the lighting or mechanical systems.
FIGURE 16B-1 – UNREINFORCED MASONRY BUILDING STUDY AREAS
1	Downtown
2	South of Market
3	South of Market/Residential
4	North of Market/Civic Center
5	Bush Street Corridor
6	Van Ness/Polk
7	Chinatown
8	North Beach
9	Waterfront
10	Mission/Upper Market
11	Outlying
	

TABLE 16B-A – PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE 1, 2
IIIIIIIVVRisk Level of BuildingSubmission of Inventory Form to DBIApplication of Building Permit with Plans or Application for Demolition 4Permit Processing and Approval 4Structural Alterations Completion 3, 411.02.02.53.521.02.53.05.031.08.09.011.041.010.011.013.01	All time periods are in years measured from February 15, 1993.2	When compliance with this table is required, the time limits and extensions of Chapter 1A are not applicable.3	One or more extensions of time totaling not more than two years may be approved by the Building Official for a building with preexisting lease(s) due to expire, for tenant relocation conditions, for delays in obtaining financing under the City bond fund loan program and for other conditions causing delay. Such extension requests must be submitted to the Chief Building Inspector in writing prior to the expiration of the permit with payment of a fee. Any construction inspection granted under this footnote during the period of extension will require payment of an inspection fee in addition to the basic extension fee. These extensions are not cumulative with the extensions allowed by Footnote 4.4	For structures containing Occupancy Group A or E and owned by organizations exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue laws of the United States and the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California as bona fide fraternal, charitable, benevolent, religious or other nonprofit organizations, extensions of time in increments of not more than three years up to the maximum time limit set forth in Column V of this table may be approved by the Building Official, provided all of the following conditions are met:
	1.	The owner demonstrates that an application has been made for funding available under the general obligation bond or the owner is actively seeking other sources of funds; and
	2.	The building is vacated and secured to the Building Official’s satisfaction. For Occupancy Group A buildings only, in lieu of vacation, an owner may agree in writing to limit occupancy of the building for use as an assembly building with an actual occupant load greater than 299 persons to not more than 12 hours per week or four hours in any one day. The signs required by California Government Code Section 8875.8 shall also be posted at each entrance to the building; and
	3.	When deemed necessary by the Building Official, pedestrian protection canopies complying with Chapter 33 of this code and Department of Public Works Order No. 157,501 are erected and maintained along sidewalks adjacent to the building; and
	4.	The Building Official finds that there is no hazard to any adjacent building or that hazard is satisfactorily mitigated; and
	5.	The owner, for the period of time in which the extension is in effect, agrees not to file an application for a demolition permit.
Chapter 16C
SEISMIC STRENGTHENING PROVISIONS FOR UNREINFORCED 
MASONRY BEARING WALL BUILDINGS
Add chapter as follows:
[Note: The time limits for compliance with the provisions of chapters 16B and 16C have passed, but the ordinance and time limits therein are still in effect.]
SECTION 1601C – PURPOSE
	The purpose of this chapter is that stated in Section 1601B.
SECTION 1602C – SCOPE
1602C.1  General. The seismic strengthening of unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings shall comply with the provisions of this chapter when strengthening either is mandated by Chapter 16B or is done voluntarily under Section 1605B.6. The elements regulated by this chapter shall be determined in accordance with Table 16C-A. Except as provided herein, other structural provisions of this code shall apply.
1602C.2  Essential and Hazardous Facilities. The provisions of this chapter are not intended to apply to the strengthening of buildings or structures in Risk Categories III and IV of ASCE 7-10 Table 1.5-1 . Such buildings or structures shall be strengthened to meet the requirements of this code for new buildings of the same occupancy category or to such other criteria as has been established by the Building Official.
1602C.3  Unreinforced Masonry Private School Buildings. The strengthening of unreinforced masonry private school buildings shall comply with Sections 17320-17366 of the California Education Code.
1602C.4  Qualified Historical Buildings. Qualified historical buildings shall be strengthened to comply with this chapter or the alternative provisions contained in Title 24, California Code of Regulations, Part 8, the State Historical Building Code.
1602C.5  Party Wall Buildings. In buildings separated by party walls, all segments sharing the party walls shall be strengthened at the same time whenever feasible. When such action is not feasible, a party wall in any segment undergoing strengthening shall be provided with the capacity to resist a reasonable estimate of the shear forces generated by the adjacent unstrengthened segments.
1602C.6  Buildings of Mixed Construction. When buildings having at least one bearing wall of unreinforced masonry also utilize other structural systems, the following requirements shall apply:
1602C.6.1  Masonry-wood or steel mix. When the lower stories of the building are of unreinforced masonry bearing wall construction and the upper stories are of wood frame or steel stud construction, the unreinforced masonry stories shall be strengthened to meet the requirements of the general procedure of this chapter and the other stories need not be strengthened. 
1602C.6.2  Masonry-concrete mix. When a building is of mixed unreinforced masonry bearing wall construction and reinforced concrete or masonry construction, the entire building shall be strengthened in accordance with a program developed by the owner's architect or engineer and approved by the Building Official.
SECTION 1603C – DEFINITIONS
	For the purpose of this chapter, the applicable definitions in this code shall also apply.
	COLLAR JOINT is the vertical space between adjacent wythes and may contain mortar.
	CROSSWALL is a new or existing wall that meets the requirements of Section 1611C.3. A crosswall is not a shear wall.
	CROSSWALL SHEAR CAPACITY is the allowable shear value times the length of the crosswall, vcLo.
	DIAPHRAGM EDGE is the intersection of the horizontal diaphragm and a shear wall.
	DIAPHRAGM SHEAR CAPACITY is the allowable shear value times the depth of the diaphragm, vuD.
	ESSENTIAL FACILITY is any building or structure classified in Risk Category IV of ASCE 7-10 Table 1.5-1.
	HAZARDOUS FACILITY is any building or structure classified in Risk Category III of ASCE 7-10 Table 1.5-1.
	NORMAL WALL is a wall perpendicular to the direction of seismic forces.
	OPEN FRONT is an exterior building wall line, without vertical elements of the lateral force resisting system in one or more stories.
	PARTY WALL is a wall common to two or more buildings located on separate parcels of land.
	POINTING is the partial reconstruction of the bed joints of an unreinforced masonry wall as defined in Section 1616C.
	QUALIFIED HISTORICAL BUILDING is a building or structure as defined in the June 1, 1990, Edition of Title 24, California Code of Regulations, Part 8, Section 8-302.
	UNREINFORCED MASONRY includes burned clay, concrete or sand-lime brick, hollow clay or concrete block, plain concrete and hollow clay tile. These materials shall comply with the requirements of Section 1606C.
	UNREINFORCED MASONRY WALL is a masonry wall in which the area of reinforcing steel is less than 25 percent of the minimum steel ratios required by this code for reinforced masonry. To qualify, reinforcing steel must have been installed in grouted cells within the masonry.
	UNREINFORCED MASONRY BEARING WALL is an unreinforced masonry wall which provides the vertical support for a floor or roof for which the total superimposed load exceeds 200 pounds per linear foot (298 kg/m) of wall.
	YIELD STORY DRIFT is the lateral displacement of one level relative to the level above or below at which yield stress is first developed in a frame member.
SECTION 1604C – SYMBOLS AND NOTATIONS
1604C.1  For the purpose of this chapter, the applicable symbols and notations in this code shall apply.
A	=	cross sectional area of unreinforced masonry pier or wall, square inches.
Ab	=	total area of the bed joints above and below the test specimen for each in-place shear test.
Cp	=	numerical coefficient as specified in Section 1630.2a and given in Table 16-O for wall anchorage and parapet and appendage strengthening and Table 16C-C for Special Procedure diaphragm shear transfer.
D	=	in-plane width dimension of pier, inches, or depth of diaphragm, feet.
DCR	=	demand-capacity ratio specified in Section 1611C.4.2.
Fwx	=	force applied to a wall at level x, pounds.
H	=	least clear height of opening on either side of a pier, inches.
h/t	=	height-to-thickness ratio of an unreinforced masonry wall. Height, h, is measured between wall anchorage levels and/or slab-on-grade.
L	=	span of diaphragm between shear walls, or span between shear wall and open front, feet.
Lo	=	length of crosswall, feet.
Li	=	effective span for an open front building specified in Section 1611C.8, feet.
PD	=	superimposed dead load at the location under consideration, pounds. For determination of the rocking shear capacity, dead load at the top of the pier under consideration shall be used.
pD+L	=	stress resulting from the dead plus actual live load in place at the time of testing, pounds per square inch (psi).
Pw	=	weight of wall, pounds.
Va	=	vaA, the allowable shear in any unreinforced masonry pier, pounds.
Vca	=	total shear capacity of crosswalls in the direction of analysis immediately above the diaphragm level being investigated, vcLo, pounds.
Vcb	=	total shear capacity of crosswalls in the direction of analysis immediately below the diaphragm level being investigated, vcLo, pounds.
Vp	=	shear force assigned to a pier on the basis of its relative shear rigidity, pounds.
Vr	=	pier rocking shear capacity of any unreinforced masonry wall or wall pier, pounds.
Vtest	=	load at incipient cracking for each in-place shear test per Section 1614C, pounds.
Vwx	=	total shear force resisted by a shear wall at the level under consideration, pounds.
va	=	allowable shear stress for unreinforced masonry, pounds per square inch (psi).
vc	=	allowable shear value for a crosswall sheathed with any of the materials given in Table 16C-D or 16C-E, pounds per foot.
vt	=	mortar shear strength as specified in Section 1606C.3.3.4, pounds per square inch (psi).
vto	=	mortar shear test values as specified in Section 1606C.3.3.4, pounds per square inch (psi).
vu	=	allowable shear value for a diaphragm sheathed with any of the materials given in Table 16C-D or 16C-E, pounds per foot.
SvuD 	=	sum of diaphragm shear capacities of both ends of the diaphragm, pounds.
SSvuD	= 	for diaphragms coupled with crosswalls, SSvuD includes the sum of shear capacities of both ends of diaphragms coupled at and above the level under consideration.
W	=	total seismic dead load as defined in Chapter 16, pounds.
Wd	=	total dead load tributary to a diaphragm, pounds.
Swd	=	total dead load to all the diaphragms at and above the level under consideration, pounds.
Ww	=	total dead load of an unreinforced masonry wall above the level under consideration or above an open front building, pounds.
Wwx	=	dead load of a unreinforced masonry wall assigned to Level x halfway above and below the level under consideration, pounds.
Z	=	seismic zone factor given in Table 16-I.
SECTION 1605C – GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
1605C.1  General. All buildings shall have a seismic resisting system conforming with ASCE 7-10 Section 12.2, except as modified by this chapter.
1605C.2  Alterations and Repairs. Alterations and repairs required to meet the provisions of this chapter shall comply with all other applicable structural requirements of this code unless specifically provided for in this chapter.
1605C.3  Requirements for Plans. In addition to the requirements of Section 106A.3.3 of this code, the following construction information shall be included in the plans required by this chapter:
	1.	Dimensioned floor and roof plans showing existing walls and the size and spacing of floor and roof framing members and sheathing materials. The plans shall indicate all existing and new crosswalls and shear walls and their materials of construction. The location of these walls and their openings shall be fully dimensioned and drawn to scale on the plans.
	2.	Dimensioned wall elevations showing openings, piers, wall classes as defined in Section 1606C.3.3.6, thickness, heights, wall shear test locations, and cracks or damaged portions requiring repairs. Where the exterior face is veneer, the type of veneer, its thickness and its bonding and/or ties to the structural wall masonry shall also be noted.
	3.	The type of interior wall and ceiling materials and framing.
	4.	The extent and type of existing wall anchorage to floors and roof when used in the design.
	5.	The extent and type of parapet and appendage corrections which were previously performed, if any.
	6.	Repair details, if any, of cracked or damaged unreinforced masonry wall walls required to resist forces specified in this chapter.
	7.	All other plans, sections and details necessary to delineate required retrofit construction.
	8.	The design procedure used shall be stated on both the plans and the permit application.
	9.	Details of the anchor prequalification program required by Section 1615C, if utilized, including location and results of all tests.
	10.	In buildings with party walls, the details of construction on both sides of each party wall shall be shown. Where required by Section 1611C.1, Item 5 the owners' consent statements shall be included with the plans.
SECTION 1606C – MATERIALS REQUIREMENTS
1606C.1  General. All materials permitted by this chapter, including their appropriate allowable design values and those existing configurations of materials specified herein, may be utilized to meet the requirements of this chapter.
1606C.2  Existing Materials. All existing materials utilized as part of the required vertical load-carrying or lateral force-resisting system shall be in sound condition or shall be repaired or removed and replaced with new materials. All unreinforced masonry materials shall comply with the following requirements:
	1.	The construction (lay-up) of the masonry units complies with Section 1606C.3.2 and the quality of bond between the units has been verified to the satisfaction of the Building Official.
	2.	Concrete masonry units are verified to be load- bearing units complying with ASTM Standard Specification C 90 or such other standard as is acceptable to the Building Official.
	3.	Hollow clay tile units are verified to be structural load-bearing units complying with ASTM Standard Specification C 34 or such other standard as is acceptable to the Building Official.
	4.	The compressive strength of plain concrete walls shall be determined based on cores taken from each class of concrete wall. The location and number of tests shall be the same as prescribed for strength tests in Sections 1606C.3.3.2 and 1606C.3.3.3.
1606C.3  Existing Unreinforced Masonry Walls.
1606C.3.1  General. All unreinforced masonry walls utilized to carry vertical loads or seismic forces parallel and perpendicular to the wall plane shall be tested as specified in this section. All masonry that does not meet the minimum standards established by this chapter shall be removed and replaced with new materials, repaired or alternatively shall have its structural functions replaced with new materials and shall be anchored to supporting elements.
1606C.3.2  Construction (lay-up) of walls.
1606C.3.2.1  Multi-wythe solid brick. The facing and backing shall be bonded so that not less than 10 percent of the exposed face area is composed of solid headers extending not less than 4 inches (101.6 mm) into the backing. The clear distance between adjacent full-length headers shall not exceed 24 inches (609.6 mm) vertically or horizontally. Where the backing consists of two or more wythes, the headers shall extend not less than 4 inches (101.6 mm) into the most distant wythe or the backing wythes shall be bonded together with separate
headers whose area and spacing conform to the foregoing. Wythes of walls not bonded as described above shall be considered as veneer. Veneer wythes shall not be included in the effective thickness used in calculating the height to thickness and the shear capacity of the wall.
1606C.3.2.2  Grouted or ungrouted hollow concrete or clay block and structural hollow clay tile.  These materials shall be laid in a running bond pattern.
	Other lay-up patterns may be acceptable if their performance can be justified as being at least equal to those specified above.
1606C.3.3  Mortar.
1606C.3.3.1  Tests. The quality of mortar in all masonry walls shall be determined by performing in-place shear tests in accordance with Section 1614C. Alternative methods of testing may be approved by the Building Official for masonry walls other than brick.
1606C.3.3.2  Location of tests. The shear tests shall be taken at locations representative of the mortar conditions throughout the entire building, taking into account variations in workmanship at different building height levels, variations in weathering of the exterior surfaces, and variations in the condition of the interior surfaces due to deterioration caused by leaks and condensation of water and/or by the deleterious effects of other substances contained within the building. The exact test locations shall be determined at the building site by the engineer or architect in responsible charge of the structural design work. An accurate record of all such tests and their location in the building shall be recorded, and these results shall be submitted to the Department for approval as part of the structural analysis.
1606C.3.3.3  Number of tests. The minimum number of tests per class shall be as follows:
	1.	At each of both the first and top stories, not less than two tests per wall or line of wall elements providing a common line of resistance to lateral forces.
	2.	At each of all other stories, not less than one test per wall or line of wall elements providing a common line of resistance to lateral forces.
	3.	In any case, not less than one test per 1,500 square feet (139.355 m2) of wall surface nor less than a total of eight tests.
1606C.3.3.4  Minimum quality of mortar.
	1.	Mortar shear test values, vto, in psi shall be obtained for each in-place shear test in accordance with the following equation:
	vto = (Vtest / Ab) – pD+L 	(16C-1)

	2.	The mortar shear strength, vt, is the value in psi that, after discarding the lowest 20 percent of the mortar shear test values, vto, is the lowest of the remaining 80 percent of the mortar shear test values.
	3.	Any unreinforced masonry bearing wall with vto, or with mortar shear strength, vt, less than 30 psi (206.84 kPa) shall be either removed, entirely pointed and retested or have its structural function replaced and shall be anchored to supporting elements in accordance with Section 1606C.3.1 and Section 1613C.8. When existing mortar in any wythe is pointed to increase its shear strength and retested, the condition of the mortar in the adjacent bed joints of the inner wythe or wythes and the opposite outer wythe shall be examined for extent of deterioration. The shear strength of any wall class shall be no greater than that of the weakest wythe of that class.
1606C.3.3.5  Collar joints. The collar joints shall be inspected at the test locations during each in-place shear test, and estimates of the percentage of the surfaces of adjacent wythes which are covered with mortar shall be reported along with the results of the in-place shear tests.
1606C.3.3.6  Unreinforced masonry classes. All existing unreinforced masonry shall be categorized into one or more classes based on quality of construction, state of repair, deterioration and weathering. A class shall be characterized by the allowable masonry shear stress determined in accordance with Section 1608C.2. Classes shall be defined for whole walls, not for small areas of masonry within a wall.
1606C.3.3.7  Pointing. All deteriorated mortar joints in unreinforced masonry bearing walls shall be pointed according to Section 1616C. Nothing shall prevent pointing of any deteriorated masonry wall joints before the tests are made, except as required in Section 1607C.1.
SECTION 1607C – QUALITY CONTROL
1607C.1  Pointing. All preparation and mortar pointing shall be performed with special inspection.
	EXCEPTION: At the discretion of the Building Official, incidental pointing may be performed without special inspection.
1607C.2  Masonry Shear Tests. In-place shear tests shall comply with Section 1614C.
1607C.3  Existing Wall Anchors. Existing wall anchors utilized as all or part of the required tension anchors shall be tested in pullout according to Section 1615C. The minimum number of anchors tested shall be four per floor, with two tests at walls with joists framing into the wall and two tests at walls with joists parallel to the wall, but not less than 10 percent of the total number of existing tension anchors at each level.
1607C.4  New Bolts. Twenty-five percent of all new embedded bolts resisting only shear forces in unreinforced masonry walls shall be tested using a calibrated torque wrench in accordance with Section 1615C.
	EXCEPTION: The number of bolts tested may be reduced to 10 percent when special inspection in accordance with Section 1704 is provided during installation but in no case shall less than two bolts per 500 square feet (46.45 m2) of wall or four bolts per wall be tested.
	All new embedded bolts resisting tension forces or a combination of tension and shear forces shall be subject to periodic special inspection in accordance with Section 1704.16 prior to placement of the bolt and grout or adhesive in the drilled hole. Five percent of all embedded bolts resisting tension forces, but not less than two bolts, shall be subject to a direct tension test and an additional 20 percent, but not less than three bolts, shall be tested using a torque calibrated wrench. Testing shall be performed in accordance with Section 1615C.
	New through bolts and existing bolts installed under the Parapet Safety Program need not be tested.
SECTION 1608C – ALLOWABLE DESIGN VALUES
1608C.1  Allowable Values.
1608C.1.1  Existing materials. Allowable values for existing materials are given in Table 16C-D, and for new materials in Table 16C-E.
1608C.1.2  Values not specified. Allowable values not specified in this chapter shall be as specified elsewhere in this code.
1608C.2  Masonry shear. The allowable unreinforced masonry shear stress, va shall be determined for each masonry class from the following equation:
	va = 0.1 vt + 0.15 PD / A 	(16C-2)

	The mortar shear test value, vt, shall be determined in accordance with Section 1606C.3.3, and shall not exceed 100 psi (689.476 kPa) for the determination of va.
	The one-third increase in allowable values of this code for short-term loading is not allowed for va.
1608C.3  Masonry Compression. Where any increase in dead plus live compression stress occurs, the allowable compression stress in unreinforced masonry shall not exceed 100 psi (689.476 kPa). The one-third increase in allowable stress of this code is allowed.
1608C.4  Masonry Tension. Unreinforced masonry shall be assumed as having no tensile capacity.
1608C.5  Unreinforced Masonry Materials Other than Solid Brick. The provisions of this chapter are primarily intended for brick construction but are also applicable to other unreinforced masonry materials when the following conditions are satisfied.
	1.	The building does not exceed two stories in height.
	2.	In the case of hollow concrete and clay block, the shear stress is limited to that permitted by Equations 16C-1 and 16C-2 based on the net area in contact through the bed joints but not more than that calculated using a mortar shear strength, vt, of 100 psi (689.476 kPa).
	3.	In the case of plain concrete, the compressive strength (f´c) shall be not less than 900 psi (6,205.28 kPa) and the allowable shear strength is limited to not more than 0.02 f´c.
	4.	In the case of all other unreinforced masonry materials, the shear stress is limited to 3 psi (20.684 kPa) based on the net area in contact through the bed joint.
	Unreinforced masonry not meeting the above criteria shall have its structural function replaced and shall be resupported, if required, in accordance with Section 1613C.8.
1608C.6  Existing Tension Anchors. The allowable resistance values of the existing anchors shall be 40 percent of the average of the tension tests of existing anchors having the same wall thickness and joist orientation. The one-third increase in allowable value of this code is not allowed for existing tension anchors.
1608C.7  Foundations. For existing foundations, new total dead loads may be increased over existing dead load by 25 percent. New total dead load plus live load plus seismic forces may be increased over existing dead load plus live load by 50 percent.
	EXCEPTION: In buildings located in poor soil areas as defined in Chapter 16B, any increase in dead load shall require an evaluation of the existing foundation system.
	Higher values may be justified only in conjunction with a geotechnical investigation. A foundation investigation shall be also submitted with the building permit application when:
	1.	A building has an existing full or partial pile supported, or similar foundation system or whenever the installation of such a system is proposed as part of the strengthening.
	2.	Whenever there is evidence of significant distress attributable to foundation or geotechnical conditions.
	3.	An investigation is required by Section 1803 or 1804.
	4.	It is desired to prove that the building is not on poor soil as permitted by the exception to Section 1603B.
SECTION 1609C – SELECTION OF PROCEDURE
1609C.1  General. Except as modified herein, the analysis and design relating to the structural alteration of existing buildings shall be in accordance with this code.
1609C.2  Selection of Procedure. All buildings shall be analyzed by either the General Procedure of Section 1610C or, when applicable, buildings may be analyzed by the Special Procedure of Section 1611C.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	A building may be strengthened to the Bolts-plus level by complying only with the requirements for wall anchorage (tension bolts), diaphragm shear transfer (shear bolts) and out-of-plane wall and parapet and appendage bracing, provided the entire building complies with all of the following requirements:
		(1)   The building does not have any vertical irregularities of Types 1a or 1b (Soft Story), 4 (In-Plane Discontinuity) or 5a or 5b (Weak Story) as defined in ASCE 7-10 Table 12.3-2 or horizontal irregularities of Types 3 (Diaphragm Discontinuity) or 4 (Out-of-Plane Offset) as defined in ASCE 7-10 Table 12.3-1 or those irregularities are corrected.
		(2)	The building does not contain any Group A Occupancies with an occupant load of 300 or more, or Group E, Group I or Group H-1, H-2, or H-4 Occupancies.
		(3)	The building has a mortar shear strength, vt, as determined by Section 1606C.3.3, of 30 psi (206.843 kPa) or more for all masonry classes.
		(4)	The building has wood or plywood diaphragms at all levels above the base of building.
		(5)	The building contains a maximum of six stories above the base of the building. The base shall be the ground level and basement or basements shall be excluded from the story count.
			EXCEPTION: In an otherwise qualifying building of greater than six stories, a maximum of six of the uppermost contiguous stories may be retrofitted using the Bolts-Plus Procedure, providing the building is not located on poor soil as defined in Section 1603B. The masonry walls required by Item 7 below shall occupy not less than 50 percent of the wall length in the lowest two of the uppermost six stories. Nonqualifying stories and stories below the uppermost six shall be retrofitted to any other procedure for which they qualify.
		(6)	The building has or will be provided with crosswalls as defined in Section 1611C.3 at a spacing that does not exceed 40 feet (12.192 m) on center. Any story which does not have or is not provided with complying crosswalls and all stories below that story shall be analyzed using the General Procedure of Section 1610C or, where applicable, the Special Procedure of Section 1611C. The floor structure that separates the Bolts-Plus and General or Special Procedure stories shall be investigated for its adequacy to act as a diaphragm in accordance with Section 1610C.1 or, where the Special Procedure is applicable, Section 1611C.4.
		(7)	The building has or will be provided with a minimum of two lines of vertical elements of the lateral force resisting system parallel to each axis. Masonry walls shall have wall piers with a height-to-width ratio that does not exceed 2 to 1 and shall occupy not less than 40 percent of the wall's length in order to be considered as providing a line of resistance. Existing moment frames and other lines of resistance added or altered to comply with this requirement shall fully comply with Section 1612C. At least one line in each direction shall be a masonry or concrete shear wall.
		(8)	In buildings containing one or more party walls, the Bolts-Plus Procedure shall not be used unless each building sharing a party wall individually complies with all of the limitations set forth above and the owner of each such building consents to the use of the procedure in writing.
		When the Bolts-Plus Procedure is applicable, the forces to be used for diaphragm shear transfer and irregularity correction shall be those specified in Sections 1611C.5 and 1611C.6 and h/t ratios shall be evaluated in accordance with Section 1611C.7. When the intersection of the diaphragm span and demand capacity ratio falls outside the three regions of Figure 16C-1, the h/t ratios for "all other buildings" in Table 16C-B shall be used. The measures used to comply shall be part of, and be coordinated with, the complete strengthening scheme described in the engineering report required by Section 1604B.2.3.
	2.	Buildings which are strengthened to conform to the requirements of Section 3401.10 in effect on or after May 21, 1973, are exempt from compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
SECTION 1610C – GENERAL PROCEDURE
1610C.1  Minimum Design Lateral Forces. Buildings shall be analyzed to resist minimum lateral forces assumed to act nonconcurrently in the direction of each of the main axes of the structure in accordance with the following:
	V = 0.10 W  	 (16C-3)
	EXCEPTION: The lateral forces need not exceed those prescribed by Section 1613.
	For buildings more than one story in height, the total force shall be distributed over the height of the building in accordance with the procedures of Chapter 16.
	For the purpose of this chapter, a dynamic analysis need not be performed for those buildings with irregularities, as defined in ASCE 7-10 Table 12.3-2 and ASCE 7-10 Table 12.3-1 which would otherwise require such analysis. All other design and analysis requirements of those tables shall apply.
	
1610C.2  Lateral Forces on Elements of Structures. Parts of structures shall be analyzed and designed as required in Chapter 16.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	Unreinforced masonry walls for which height-to-thickness ratios do not exceed ratios set forth in Table 16C-B need not be analyzed for out-of-plane loading. Unreinforced masonry walls which exceed the allowable h/t ratios of Table 16C-B shall be braced according to Section 1613C.5.
	2.	Parapets complying with Section 1613C.6 need not be analyzed for out-of-plane loading.
	3.	Out-of-plane anchorage of the walls shall be designed to 0.3 times the mass of the wall.
1610C.3  Shear Walls (In-Plane Loading). Shear walls shall comply with Section 1612C.
1610C.4  Cords. When required by the structural analysis, cord forces of horizontal diaphragms shall be developed in existing materials or by the addition of new materials.
SECTION 1611C – SPECIAL PROCEDURE
1611C.1  Limits for Application. The Special Procedure of this section may only be applied to buildings with the following characteristics:
	1.	The building is not an essential or hazardous facility.
	2.	Wood or plywood diaphragms at all levels above the base of structure.
	3.	A maximum of six stories above the base of the building. The base shall be the ground level, and basement or basements shall be excluded from the story count.
	EXCEPTION: An otherwise qualifying building of greater than six stories may also be retrofitted using the Special Procedure, provided the building is not located on poor soil as defined in Section 1603B or does not contain any Group A Occupancies with an occupant load of 300 or more, or Group E, or Group I Occupancies.
	4.	Except for single-story buildings with an open front on one side only, a minimum of two lines of vertical elements of the lateral force resisting system complying with Section 1612C parallel to each axis. At least one line in each direction shall be a masonry or concrete shear wall. Requirements for open front buildings are contained in Section 1611C.8.
	5.	In buildings containing one or more party walls, the Special Procedure shall not be used unless each building sharing a party wall individually complies with all of the limitations set forth above, and the owner of each such building consents to the use of the procedure in writing.
1611C.2  Lateral Forces on Elements of Structures. With the exception of the diaphragm provisions in Section 1611C.4, elements of structures shall comply with Section 1610C.2.
1611C.3  Crosswalls. Crosswalls when used shall meet the requirements of this section.
1611C.3.1  Crosswall definition. A "crosswall" is a wood-framed wall sheathed with any of the materials described in Table 16C-D or 16C-E or other system as defined in Section 1611C.3.5. Spacing of crosswalls shall not exceed 40 feet (12.19 m) on center measured perpendicular to the direction of consideration and shall be placed in each story of the building. Crosswalls shall extend the full story height between diaphragms.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	Crosswalls need not be provided at all levels in accordance with Section 1611C.4.2(4).
	2.	Existing crosswalls need not be continuous below a wood diaphragm at or within 4 feet (1.219 m) of grade, provided:
		(1)	Shear connections and anchorage requirements, Section 1611C.5 are satisfied at all edges of the diaphragm.
		(2)	Crosswalls with total shear capacity of 0.08 åWd interconnect the diaphragm to the foundation.
		(3)	The demand-capacity ratio of the diaphragm between the crosswalls that are continuous to their foundations shall be calculated as:
	DCR = (0.332 Wd + Vca) / 2 vuD 		(16C-4)
and DCR shall not exceed 2.5.
1611C.3.2  Crosswall shear capacity. Within any 40 feet (12.19 m) measured along the span of the diaphragm, the sum of the crosswall shear diaphragm at or above the level under consideration.
1611C.3.3  Existing crosswalls. Existing crosswalls shall have a maximum height-to-length ratio between openings of 1.5 to 1. Existing crosswall connections to diaphragms need not be investigated as long as the crosswall extends to the framing of the diaphragm above and below.
1611C.3.4  New crosswalls. New crosswall connections to the diaphragm shall develop the crosswall shear capacity. New crosswalls shall have the capacity to resist an overturning moment equal to the crosswall shear capacity times the story height. Crosswall overturning moments need not be cumulative over more than two stories.
1611C.3.5  Other crosswall systems. Other systems, such as moment resisting frames, may be used as crosswalls, provided that the yield story drift does not exceed 1 inch (25.4 mm) in any story.
1611C.4  Wood Diaphragms.
1611C.4.1  Acceptable diaphragm span. A diaphragm is acceptable if the point (L, DCR) on Figure 16C-1 falls within Regions 1, 2 or 3.
1611C.4.2  Demand-capacity ratios. Demand- capacity ratios shall be calculated for the diaphragm at any level according to the following formulas:
	1.	For a diaphragm without qualifying crosswalls at levels immediately above or below:
	DCR = 0.332 Wd / SvuD  			(16C-5)
	2.	For a diaphragm in a single-story building with qualifying crosswalls:
	DCR = 0.332 Wd / (SvuD + Vcb )		 (16C-6)
	3.	For diaphragms in a multi-story building with qualifying crosswalls in all levels:
	DCR = 0.332  SWd / (SSvuD + Vcb) 		(16C-7)
	DCR shall be calculated at each level for the set of diaphragms at and above the level under consideration. In addition, the roof diaphragm shall also meet the requirements of Formula (16C-6).
	4.	For a roof diaphragm and the diaphragm directly below if coupled by crosswalls:
	DCR = 0.332  SWd / SSvuD  			(16C-8)
1611C.4.3  Chords. An analysis for diaphragm flexure need not be made and chords need not be provided.
1611C.4.4  Collectors. An analysis of diaphragm collector forces shall be made for the transfer of diaphragm edge shears into vertical elements of the lateral force resisting system. Collector forces may be resisted by new or existing elements.
1611C.4.5  Diaphragm openings.
1611C.4.5.1  Forces. Diaphragm forces at corners of openings shall be investigated and shall be developed into the diaphragm by new or existing materials.
1611C.4.5.2  Demand-capacity ratio. In addition to the demand-capacity ratios of Section 1611C.4.2, the demand-capacity ratio of the portion of the diaphragm adjacent to an opening shall be calculated using the opening dimension as the span.
1611C.4.5.3  End quarter of diaphragm. Where an opening occurs in the end quarter of the diaphragm span, vuD for the demand-capacity ratio calculation shall be based on the net depth of the diaphragm.
1611C.5  Diaphragm Shear Transfer. Diaphragms shall be connected to shear walls with connections capable of developing a minimum force given by the lesser of the following formulas:
	V = 0.2 Cp Wd 					(16C-9)
using the Cp values in Table 16C-C, or
	V = vuD 					(16C-10)
1611C.6  Shear Walls (In-plane Loading).
1611C.6.1  Wall story force. The wall story force distributed to a shear wall at any diaphragm level shall be the lesser value calculated as:
	1.	For buildings without crosswalls:
	Fwx = 0.132 (Wwx + Wd / 2) 			(16C-11)
but need not exceed
	Fwx = 0.132 Wwx + vuD 			(16C-12)
	2.	For buildings with crosswalls in all levels:
	Fwx = 0.1 (Wwx + Wd / 2) 			(16C-13)
but need not exceed
	Fwx = 0.1 [Wwx + SWd (vuD / SSvuD)  	(16C-14)
and need not exceed
	Fwx = 0.1 Wwx + vuD 				(16C-15)
1611C.6.2  Wall story shear. The wall story shear shall be the sum of the wall story forces at and above the level of consideration.
	Vwx = SFwx 					(16C-16)
1611C.6.3  Shear wall analysis. Shear walls shall comply with Section 1612C.
1611C.6.4  Moment frames. Moment frames used in place of shear walls shall be designed as required in Chapter 16 except that the forces shall be as specified in Section 1611C.6.1 and the story drift ratio shall be limited to 0.005, except as further limited by Section 1612C.4.2.
1611C.7  Out-of-Plane Forces – Unreinforced Masonry Walls.
1611C.7.1  Allowable unreinforced masonry wall height-to-thickness ratios. The provisions of Section 1610C.2 are applicable except the allowable height- to-thickness ratios given in Table 16C-B shall be determined from Figure 16C-1 as follows:
	1.	In Region 1, height-to-thickness ratios for buildings with crosswalls may be used if qualifying crosswalls are present in all stories.
	2.	In Region 2, height-to-thickness ratios for buildings with crosswalls may be used whether or not qualifying crosswalls are present.
	3.	In Region 3, height-to-thickness ratios for "all other buildings" shall be used whether or not qualifying crosswalls are present.
1611C.7.2  Walls with diaphragms in different regions. When diaphragms above and below the wall under consideration have demand-capacity ratios in different regions of Figure 16C-1, the lesser height-to-thickness ratio shall be used.
1611C.8  Open Front Design Procedure. A single-story building with an open front on one side and crosswalls parallel to the open front may be designed by the following procedure:
	1.	Effective diaphragm span, Li, for use in Figure 16C-1 shall be determined in accordance with the following formula:
	Li = 2 [(Ww / Wd ) L + L] x 			(16C-17)
	2.	Diaphragm demand-capacity ratio shall be calculated as:
	DCR = 0.332 (Wd + Ww ) / [(vuD) + Vcb ] 	(16C-18)

SECTION 1612C – ANALYSIS AND DESIGN
1612C.1  Analysis of Vertical Elements of the Lateral Force-resisting System. General. The following requirements are applicable to both the General Procedure and Special Procedure.
1612C.2  Existing Unreinforced Masonry Walls.
1612C.2.1  Flexural rigidity. Flexural components of deflection may be neglected in determining the rigidity of an unreinforced masonry wall.
1612C.2.2  Shear walls with openings. Wall piers shall be analyzed according to the following procedure which is diagrammed in Figure 16C-2:
1612C.2.2.1  For any pier:
	1.	The pier shear capacity shall be calculated as:
	Va = va Ax					(16C-19)

	2.	The pier rocking shear capacity shall be calculated as:
	Vr = 0.5 PDD / H 				 (16C-20)
1612C.2.2.2  Pier behavior. The wall piers at any level are acceptable if they comply with one of the following modes of behavior:
	1.	Rocking controlled mode. When the pier rocking shear capacity is less than the pier shear capacity, i.e., Vr < Va for each pier in a level, forces in the wall at that level, Vwx, shall be distributed to each pier in proportion to PDD/H.
	For the wall at that level:
	Vwx < S å Vr 					(16C-21)
	2.	Shear controlled mode. Where the pier shear capacity is less than the pier rocking capacity, i.e., Vr < Va in at least one pier in a level, forces in the wall at the level, Vwx, shall be distributed to each pier in proportion to D/H.
	For each pier at that level:
	Vp < Va 					(16C-22)
and
	Vp < Vr 					(16C-23)
	If Vp < Va for each pier and Vp > Vr for one or more piers, such piers shall be omitted from the analysis, and the procedure shall be repeated for the remaining piers, unless the wall is strengthened and reanalyzed.
1612C.2.2.3  Masonry pier tension stress. Unreinforced masonry wall piers need not be analyzed for tension stress.
1612C.2.3  Shear walls without openings. Shear walls without openings shall be analyzed as for walls with openings except that Vr shall be calculated as follows:
	Vr = (0.50 PD + 0.25 Pw) D / H 		(16C-24)
1612C.3  Plywood Sheathed Shear Walls. Plywood sheathed shear walls may be used to resist lateral forces for buildings with wood diaphragms analyzed according to provisions of Section 1610C. Plywood sheathed shear walls may not be used to share lateral forces with other materials along the same line of resistance.
1612C.4  Combinations of Vertical Elements.
1612C.4.1  Lateral force distribution. Lateral forces shall be distributed among the designated vertical resisting elements in a line in proportion to their relative rigidities except that moment frames shall comply with Section 1612C.4.2.
1612C.4.2  Moment-resisting frames. A moment frame shall not be used with an unreinforced masonry wall in a single line of resistance unless the wall has piers that are capable of sustaining rocking in accordance with Section 1612C.2.2 and the frames are designed to carry 100 percent of the lateral forces, and the story drift ratio shall be limited to 0.0025.
1612C.5  Shear Force. The shear force used in the design of any party wall shall be the sum of the shear forces contributed by each building sharing that wall.
SECTION 1613C – DETAILED SYSTEM DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
1613C.1  Wall Anchorage.
1613C.1.1  Anchor locations. All unreinforced masonry walls shall be anchored at the roof and floor levels as required in Section 1610C.2. Ceilings of plaster, gypsum board or similar heavier materials, when not attached directly to roof or floor framing, and abutting masonry walls, shall be either anchored to the walls at a maximum spacing of 6 feet (1.829 m) or removed.
1613C.1.2  Anchor requirements. Anchors shall consist of bolts installed through the wall as specified in Table 16C-E, or by an approved equivalent at a maximum anchor spacing of 6 feet (1.829 m). All existing wall anchors shall be secured to the joists to develop the required forces.
1613C.1.3  Minimum wall anchorage. Anchorage of masonry walls to each floor or roof shall resist a minimum force determined in accordance with Chapter 16 or 200 pounds per linear foot (298 kg/m), whichever is greater, acting normal to the wall at the level of the floor or roof. Anchor spacing shall not exceed 6 feet (1.829 m) on center. Existing through-the-wall anchors, if used, must meet the requirements of this chapter or must be upgraded.
1613C.1.4  Anchors at corners. At the roof and floor levels, both shear and tension anchors shall be provided within 2 feet (0.609 m) horizontally from the inside of the corners of the walls.
1613C.1.5  Anchors with limited access. When access to the exterior face of the masonry wall is prevented, wall anchors conforming to Item 4.b. in Table 16C-E may be used.
1613C.1.6  Anchors at interior and party walls. When floor or roof framing aligns vertically at party and interior masonry walls, continuous anchors shall be utilized to directly connect the floor or roof framing on either side of the wall. Where the roof or floor framing is offset more than the least depth of any adjacent framing, the intervening wall section shall be investigated for cross wythe shear assuming that the diaphragm to wall tensions on either side of the wall are acting in opposite directions.
1613C.2  Diaphragm Shear Transfer. Bolts transmitting shear forces shall have a maximum bolt spacing of 6 feet (1.829 m) and shall have nuts installed over malleable iron or plate washers when bearing on wood and heavy cut washers when bearing on steel.
1613C.3  Collectors. Collector elements shall be provided which are capable of transferring the seismic forces originating in other portions of the building to the element providing the resistance to those forces.
1613C.4  Ties and Continuity. Ties and continuity shall conform to Section 1604.11.
1613C.5  Wall Bracing.
1613C.5.1  General. Where a wall height-to- thickness ratio exceeds the specified limits, the wall may be laterally supported by vertical bracing members per Section 1613C.5.2 or by reducing the wall height by bracing per Section 1613C.5.3.
1613C.5.2  Vertical bracing members. Vertical bracing members shall be attached to floor and roof construction for their design loads independently of required wall anchors. Horizontal spacing of vertical bracing members shall not exceed one-half the unsupported height of the wall nor 10 feet (3.048 m). Deflection of such bracing members at design loads shall not exceed one-tenth of the wall thickness.
1613C.5.3  Intermediate wall bracing. The wall height may be reduced by bracing elements connected to the floor or roof. Horizontal spacing of the bracing elements and wall anchors shall be as required by design but shall not exceed 6 feet (1.829 m) on center. Bracing elements shall be detailed to minimize the horizontal displacement of the wall by the vertical displacement of the floor or roof.
1613C.6  Parapets. Parapets and appendages not conforming to this chapter shall be removed, or stabilized or braced to ensure that the parapets and appendages remain in their original position.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	Parapets, appendages and roof-to wall-tension anchors which have already been removed, stabilized or braced to comply with Chapter 16D of this code or previous codes pursuant to an application filed before the effective date of this ordinance need not be reanalyzed or restrengthened.
	2.	Parapets whose heights do not exceed 3 times their thicknesses need not be removed, stabilized or braced, provided they are located either immediately adjacent to a normally inaccessible court or yard or another building. In the case of an adjoining building, the top of the parapet of the building under consideration shall not be more than 12 inches (0.305 m) above the top of the parapet of the adjoining building. In order to qualify for this exception, the owner must execute an agreement with the Department to voluntarily abate any hazard that may arise as a result of changed conditions such as demolition of the adjacent building or development or occupancy of the adjoining court or yard. The owner must record the agreement with the County Recorder on a form satisfactory to the Department and supply a copy of the recorded agreement to the Department.
	Parapets previously exempted that would not be exempted under Exception 2 above shall be removed, or stabilized or braced when the building is strengthened.
	The maximum height of an unbraced unreinforced masonry parapet above the lower of either the level of tension anchors or roof sheathing shall not exceed 1-1/2 times the thickness of the parapet wall. If the required parapet height exceeds this maximum height, a bracing system designed for the forces determined in accordance with Chapter 16 shall support the top of the parapet. Parapet corrective work must be performed in conjunction with the installation of tension roof anchors.
	The minimum height of a parapet above any wall anchor shall be 12 inches (0.305 m).
	EXCEPTION: If a reinforced concrete beam is provided at the top of the wall, the minimum height above the wall anchor may be 6 inches (170.44 mm).
1613C.7  Veneer.
1613C.7.1  Anchorages. Veneer shall be anchored with approved anchor ties, conforming to the required design capacity specified in this code and placed at a maximum spacing of 24 inches (610 mm) with a maximum supported area of 4 square feet (0.372 m2).
	EXCEPTION: Existing anchor ties for attaching brick veneer to brick backing may be acceptable, provided the ties are in good condition and are corrugated galvanized iron strips not less than 1 inch (25.4 mm) in width, 8 inches (203.2 mm) in length and 1/16 inch (1.59 mm) in thickness or equal.
1613C.7.2  Verification. The location and condition of existing veneer anchor ties shall be verified as follows:
	1.	An approved testing laboratory shall verify the location and spacing of the ties and shall submit a report to the Building Official for approval as part of the structural analysis.
	2.	The veneer in a selected area shall be removed to expose a representative sample of ties (not less than four) for inspection by the Building Official.
1613C.8  Nonstructural Masonry Walls. Unreinforced masonry walls which carry no design vertical or lateral loads and are not required by the design to be part of the lateral force resisting system shall be adequately anchored to new or existing supporting elements. The anchors and elements shall be designed for the out-of-plane forces specified in Chapter 16. The height or length to thickness ratio between such supporting elements for such walls shall not exceed 13.
1613C.9  Truss and Beam Supports. Where trusses and beams, other than rafters or joists, are supported on masonry, independent secondary columns shall be installed to support vertical loads of the roof or floor members.
1613C.10  Adjacent Buildings. Where elements of adjacent buildings do not have a separation of at least 5 inches (127 mm), the allowable height-to- thickness ratios for "all other buildings" per Table 16C-B shall be used in the direction of consideration.
SECTION 1614C – IN-PLACE MASONRY SHEAR TESTS
1614C.1  Scope. This section applies when this chapter requires in-place testing of the quality of masonry mortar.
1614C.2  Preparation of Sample. The bed joints of the outer wythe of the masonry shall be tested in shear by laterally displacing a single brick relative to the adjacent bricks in the same wythe. The head joint opposite the loaded end of the test brick shall be carefully excavated and cleared. The brick adjacent to the loaded end of the test brick shall be carefully removed by sawing or drilling and excavating to provide space for a hydraulic ram and steel loading blocks.
1614C.3  Application of Load and Determination of Results. Steel blocks, the size of the end of the brick, shall be used on each end of the ram to distribute the load to the brick. The blocks shall not contact the mortar joints. The load shall be applied horizontally, in the plane of the wythe, until either a crack can be seen or slip occurs. The strength of the mortar shall be calculated by dividing the load at the first cracking or movement of the test brick by the nominal gross area of the sum of the two bed joints.
SECTION 1615C – TEST OF ANCHORS IN UNREINFORCED MASONRY WALLS
1615C.1  Scope. Shear and tension anchors embedded in existing masonry construction shall be tested in accordance with this section when and as required by this chapter.
1615C.2  Direct Tension Testing of Existing Anchors and New Bolts. The test apparatus shall be supported on the masonry wall. The distance between the anchor and the test apparatus support shall not be less than one-half the wall thickness for existing anchors and 75 percent of the embedment for new embedded bolts. Existing wall anchors shall be given a preload of 300 pounds (136.4 kg) prior to establishing a datum for recording elongation. The tension test load reported shall be recorded at 1/8 inch (3.18 mm) relative movement of the existing anchor and the adjacent masonry surface. New embedded tension bolts shall be subject to a direct tension load of not less than 2.5 times the design load but not less than 1,500 pounds (682 kg) for five minutes (10 percent deviation).
1615C.3 Torque testing of new bolts. Bolts which are embedded in unreinforced masonry walls shall be tested using a torque calibrated wrench to the following minimum torques:
1/2-inch-diameter bolts – 40 foot-pounds.(12.7 mm)(5.54 M-Kg)5/8-inch-diameter bolts – 50 foot-pounds.(16 mm)(6.93 M-Kg)3/4-inch-diameter bolts – 60 foot-pounds.(19 mm)(8.31 M-Kg)
1615C.4  Prequalification Test for Bolts and Other Types of Anchors. This section is applicable when it is desired to use tension or shear values for anchors greater than those permitted by Table 16C-E. The direct tension test procedure set forth in Section 1615C.2 for existing anchors may be used to determine the allowable tension values for new embedded or through bolts except that no preload is required. Bolts shall be installed in the same manner and using the same materials as will be used in the actual construction. A minimum of 5 tests for each bolt size and type shall be performed for each class of masonry in which they are proposed to be used. The allowable tension value for such anchors shall be 40 percent of the average value of the tests for each size and type of bolt and class of masonry.
	Shear bolts may be similarly prequalified. The test procedure shall comply with ASTM E 488-90 or such other procedure as is approved by the Building Official. The allowable values determined in this manner may exceed those set forth in Table 16C-E.
1615C.5  Reports. Results of all tests shall be reported. The report shall include the test results as related to anchor size and type, orientation of loading, details of the anchor installation and embedment, wall thickness and joist orientation.
SECTION 1616C – POINTING OF UNREINFORCED MASONRY WALLS
1616C.1  Scope. Pointing of deteriorated mortar joints when required by this chapter shall be in accordance with this section.
1616C.2  Joint Preparation. The old or deteriorated mortar should be cut out, by means of a toothing chisel or non-impact power tool, to a uniform depth of 3/4 inch (19.1 mm) until sound mortar is reached. Care shall be taken not to damage the brick edges. After cutting is completed, all loose material shall be removed with a brush, air or water stream.
1616C.3  Mortar Preparation. The mortar mix shall be Type N or S proportions as required by the construction specifications. The pointing mortar shall be pre-hydrated by first thoroughly mixing all ingredients dry, and then mixing again, adding only enough water to produce a damp unworkable mix which will retain its shape when pressed into a ball. The mortar shall be kept in a damp condition for 1-1/2 hours; then sufficient water shall be added to bring it to a proper consistency that is somewhat drier than conventional masonry mortar.
1616C.4  Packing. The joint into which the mortar is to be packed shall be damp but without freestanding water. The mortar shall be tightly packed into the joint in layers not exceeding 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) in depth until it is filled; then it shall be tooled to a smooth surface to match the original profile.
FIGURE 16C-1 – ACCEPTABLE DIAPHRAGM SPAN


NOTE: To convert feet to meters, multiply by 0.3048.
FIGURE 16C-2 – ANALYSIS OF UNREINFORCED MASONRY WALL IN-PLANE SHEAR FORCES


TABLE 16C-A – ELEMENTS REGULATED BY THIS CHAPTER
ELEMENTSSECTIONPROCEDUREBOLTS-
PL USSPECIALGENERAL 3401.8 2Masonry Shear Strength1606C.3.3XXXXDiaphragms1610C.1  X 1611C.4 X  1604.11  X Diaphragm Shear Transfer1610C.1X1   1611C.5X1X  1613C.2XXX Chords1611C.4  X Diaphragm Capacity Ratios1604 X  Collectors1613C.3  X 1611C.4 X  1604.11   X4Analysis of Vertical Elements1612C XX Crosswalls1611C.3 X  Shear Walls1610C.3 X  1611C.6 X  1604.11   X3,4Out of Plane Wall Anchorage1613C.1XXX 1604.11  X Ties & Continuity1613C.4 XX 1604.11  XXWall Bracing1613C.5XXXX5Parapets1613C.6XXXXVeneer1613C.7XXXXNonstructural Masonry Walls1613C.8 XXXTruss & Beam Supports1613C.9 XXXAdjacent Buildings1613C.10 XXXSubdiaphragms1604.11   X1604.8.2    ASCE 7-05 Section 12.11.24    	1	Diaphragm shear transfer forces shall be calculated using the General Procedures unless the building qualifies for the use of the Special Procedure.
	2	Retrofit procedure per Section 3401.8
	3	Wood shear walls allowed only for one- or two-story building per Section 2305.1.
	4	Only in-plane shear check required. (Rocking not allowed.)
	5	Use (h/t) for “All other walls” from Table 16C-B.
TABLE 16C-B – ALLOWABLE VALUE OF HEIGHT-TO-THICKNESS RATIO OF UNREINFORCED MASONRY WALLS
WALL TYPESBUILDINGS WITH CROSSWALLS 1ALL OTHER BUILDINGSWalls of one-story buildings16 2, 313First story wall of multistory buildings1615Walls in top story of multistory buildings14 2, 39All other walls1613	1	Applies to the Special Procedure of Section 1611C and the Bolts-plus Procedure of the last paragraph of Exception 1 to Section 1609C.2 only. See Section 1611C.7 for other restrictions.
	2	This value of height-to-thickness ratio may be used only where mortar shear tests establish a tested mortar shear strength, vt, of not less than 100 psi (689.48 kPa). This value may also be used where the tested mortar strength is not less than 60 psi (413.69 kPa) and a visual examination of the collar joint indicates not less than 50 percent mortar coverage.
	3	Where a visual examination of the collar joint indicates not less than 50 percent mortar coverage, and the tested mortar shear strength, vt, is greater than 30 psi (206.84 kPa) but less than 60 psi (413.69 kPa), the allowable height-to-thickness ratio may be determined by linear interpolation between the larger and smaller ratios in direct proportion to the tested mortar strength.
TABLE 16C-C – HORIZONTAL FORCE FACTOR, Cp1
CONFIGURATION OF MATERIALSCpRoofs with straight or diagonal sheathing and roofing applied directly to the sheathing, or floors with straight tongue-and-groove sheathing0.50Diaphragms with double or multiple layers of boards with edges offset, and blocked plywood systems0.75	1	Applicable to the Special Procedure of Section 1611C only.
TABLE 16C-D – ALLOWABLE VALUES FOR EXISTING MATERIALS
EXISTING MATERIALS OR CONFIGURATION OF MATERIALS 1ALLOWABLE VALUES1.	HORIZONTAL DIAPHRAGMS 2(× 14.5939 for N/m)	a.	Roofs with straight sheathing and roofing applied directly to the sheathing100 pounds per foot seismic shear	b.	Roofs with diagonal sheathing and roofing applied directly to the sheathing250 pounds per foot seismic shear	c.	Floors with straight tongue-and-groove sheathing100 pounds per foot seismic shear	d.	Floors with straight sheathing and finished wood flooring with board edges offset or perpendicular500 pounds per foot seismic shear	e.	Floors with diagonal sheathing and finished wood flooring600 pounds per foot seismic shear2.	CROSSWALLS 2, 3(× 14.5939 for N/m)	a.	Plaster on wood or metal lathper side: 200 pounds per foot seismic shear	b.	Plaster on gypsum lath175 pounds per foot seismic shear	c.	Gypsum wallboard, unblocked edges75 pounds per foot seismic shear	d.	Gypsum wallboard, blocked edges125 pounds per foot seismic shear3.	EXISTING FOOTINGS, WOOD FRAMING, STRUCTURAL STEEL AND REINFORCE STEEL(× 6.895 for kPa)	a.	Plain concrete footingsf'c = 1,500 psi unless otherwise shown by tests 4	b.	Douglas fir woodAllowable stress same as D.F. No. 1 4	c.	Reinforcing steelft = 18,000 psi maximum 4	d.	Structural steelft = 20,000 psi maximum 4 	1	Material must be sound and in good condition.
	2	A one-third increase in allowable stress is not allowed.
	3	Shear values of these materials may be combined, except the total combined value shall not exceed 300 pounds per foot (2068.43 kPa).
	4	Stresses given may be increased for combinations of loads as specified in this code.
TABLE 16C-E – ALLOWABLE VALUES OF NEW MATERIALS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH EXISTING CONSTRUCTION
NEW MATERIALS OR CONFIGURATIONS OF MATERIALSALLOWABLE VALUES 11.	HORIZONTAL DIAPHRAGMS 10(× 14.5939 for N/m)	a.	Plywood sheathing nailed directly over existing straight sheathing with ends of plywood sheets bearing on joists or rafters and edges of plywood located on center of individual sheathing boards225 pounds per foot seismic shear	b.	Plywood sheathing nailed directly over existing diagonal sheathing with ends of plywood sheets bearing on joists or rafters375 pounds per foot seismic shear	c.	Plywood sheathing nailed directly over existing straight or diagonal sheathing with ends of plywood sheets bearing on joists or rafters with edges of plywood located over new blocking and nailed to provide a minimum nail penetration into framing and blocking of 1-5/8 inches (41.28 mm)75 percent of the values specified in Table 2306.2.1(1)2.	SHEAR WALLS: (GENERAL PROCEDURE) 	Plywood sheathing applied directly over wood studs. No value shall be given to plywood applied over existing plaster or wood sheathing.100 percent of the value specified in Table 2306.2.1(2) for shear walls3.	CROSSWALLS: (SPECIAL PROCEDURE) 	a.	Plywood sheathing applied directly over wood studs. No value shall be given to plywood applied over existing plaster or wood sheathing133 percent of the value specified in Table 2306.2.1(2) for shear walls	b.	Drywall or plaster applied directly over wood studs100 percent of the values in Table 2306.5	c.	Drywall or plaster applied to sheathing over existing wood studsThe values in Table 2306.5 reduced as noted in Footnote 1 of that table 24. 	TENSION BOLTS(× 4.448 for N)	a.	Bolts extending entirely through unreinforced masonry walls secured with bearing plates on far side of a 3 wythe minimum wall with at least 30 square inches (19,355 mm2) of area 3,4,111,800 pounds per bolt 8
900 pounds per bolt for 2 wythe walls 8	b.	Bolts extending to the exterior face of the wall with a 2-1/2-inch (63.5 mm) round plate under the head and drilled at an angle of 22-1/2 degrees to the horizontal, installed as specified for shear bolts 3, 4, 51,200 pounds per bolt5. 	SHEAR BOLTS	Bolts embedded a minimum of 8 inches into unreinforced masonry walls and centered in a 2-1/2-inch diameter hole filled with dry-pack or non-shrink grout. Through bolts with first 8 inches as noted above and embedded bolts as noted in item 4b.4, 5, 9½ inch dia. 350 pounds 7, 85/8 inch dia. 500 pounds 7, 83/4 inch dia. 750 pounds 7, 86.	INFILLED WALLS	Reinforced masonry infilled openings in existing unreinforced masonry walls. Provide keys or dowels to match reinforcing.Same values as for unreinforced masonry walls7.	REINFORCED MASONRY	Masonry piers and walls reinforced per Chapter 21Same values as specified in Section 210768.	REINFORCED CONCRETE	Concrete footings, walls and piers reinforced as specified in Chapter 19 and designed for tributary loadsSame values as specified in Chapter 196	1	A one-third increase in allowable stress is not allowed, except as noted.
	2	In addition to existing sheathing value.
	3	Bolts to be ½ inch (1.27 mm) minimum in diameter.
	4	Drilling for bolts and dowels shall be done with an electric rotary drill. Impact tools shall not be used for drilling holes or tightening anchors and shear bolt nuts.
	5	Embedded bolts to be tested as specified in Section 1607C.
	6	Stress given may be increased for combinations of load as specified in this code.
	7	A one-third increase in allowable stress is allowed for short-term loading.
	8	Other bolt sizes, values and installation methods may be used, provided a testing program is conducted in accordance with Section 1615C. Bolt spacing shall not exceed 6 feet (1.83 m) on center and shall not be less than 12 inches (0.305 m) on center.
	9	Tension and shear from seismic loads need not be assumed to act simultaneously.
	10	Values and limitations are for nailed plywood. Higher values may be used for other approved fastening systems such as staples when approved by the Building Official.
	11	Plate size may be reduced to not less than 9 square inches (5805 mm2), provided the bearing stress on the masonry at design load does not exceed 60 pounds per square inch, psi (414kPa).
Chapter 16D
PARAPETS AND APPENDAGES – RETROACTIVE PROVISIONS
Add chapter as follows:
SECTION 1601D – GENERAL
	Every parapet or appendage which is supported on or attached to an exterior wall of a building adjacent to a property line, passageway, open courtyard or public way or which occurs in any other location where failure of such parapet or appendage would be hazardous to life or limb in such areas shall, when required by the Building Official, be subject to inspection by a licensed architect or civil engineer employed by the owner. The provisions of this section are retroactive and shall apply to and include buildings erected prior to the adoption of this code.
SECTION 1602D – CORRECTION OF HAZARDOUS PARAPETS AND APPENDAGES
	Whenever the Building Official determines, by visual inspection or from the report furnished by the architect or civil engineer, that an existing parapet or appendage which is within the scope of this section is not adequate to resist the lateral forces due to earthquake as detailed in Chapter 16 of the Building Code which was in effect on July 1, 1969, the Building Official shall conclude that inadequacies exist and shall, by written notice to the owner or person or the agent in charge of the building, direct that necessary steps be taken to eliminate the hazard.
	Upon receipt of such notice, the owner or person or agent in control of the building where such hazardous parapet or appendage exists shall:
	1.	Within one year from the date of receipt of such notice:
		(1)	Submit to the Building Official an acceptable written plan or procedure for the elimination of the hazardous condition by removal or alteration of the hazardous parapet or appendage.
		(2)	Obtain the necessary alteration permit in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 106A of this code.
	2.	Within one year after obtaining the alteration permit, complete all work indicated on the approved construction documents. A one-year extension may be granted by the Building Official when mitigating circumstances exist.
SECTION 1603D – VARIANCE PROCEDURE
	Any person receiving a notice as set out in Section 1602D above may appeal for a variance from the notice to the Board of Examiners in the manner provided by Section 105A.1 or, in the case of parapets or appendages of unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings, to the Board of Examiners in the manner provided by Section 105A.1.
SECTION 1604D – UNREINFORCED MASONRY PARAPETS AND APPENDAGES
	The removal, stabilization or bracing of unreinforced masonry parapets and appendages, the application for a permit for which was filed after February 15, 1993, shall comply with Section 1613C.6. Certain parapets and appendages, previously exempted under this section, shall be removed, or stabilized, or braced when required by Section 1613C.6.
Chapter 17
STRUCTURAL TESTS AND SPECIAL INSPECTIONS
SECTION 1704 – SPECIAL INSPECTIONS
1704.1  General.
Replace Exception 2 as follows:
	2.	The special inspections and verifications for foundation concrete, other than cast-in-place drilled piles or caissons, are not required for occupancies in Group R-3 and occupancies in Group U that are accessory to a residential occupancy, but not limited to, those listed in Section 312.1.
	This exception shall not apply to foundations serving as retaining walls of soil over 5 feet (1829 mm) in height measured from the base of the foundation, or the structural design of the footing based on a specified compressive strength, f'c, greater than 2,500 pounds per square inch (psi) (17.2 MPa), regardless of the compressive strength specified in the construction documents or used in the footing construction. [ß]
SECTION 1705 – STATEMENT OF SPECIAL INSPECTIONS
Add the following sections:
1705.4.3  Exterior facing. Special inspection is required during fastening of all exterior veneer and ornamentation facing units constructed of concrete, masonry, stone or similar materials, and all curtain walls weighing more than 15 pounds per square foot (73.23 kg/m2) of wall.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	Veneers weighing less than 5 pounds per square foot (24.46 kg/m2) located less than 15 feet (4.57 m) above grade.
	2.	Anchored veneer located less than 10 feet (3.048 m) above grade.
1705.4.4  Retrofit of unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings. Special inspection is required:
	1	During the testing of mortar quality and performance of masonry shear tests in accordance with Section 1614C when required by Sections 1606C.3.3 and 1607C.2.
	2	During repointing operations in accordance with Section 1616C when required by Sections 1606C.3.3.7 and 1607C.1.
	3	During the installation of new shear bolts when required by the exception to Section 1607C.4.
	4	Prior to the placement of the bolt and grout or adhesive for embedded bolts as required by Section 1607C.4.
	5	During the prequalification tests in accordance with Section 1615C.3 as permitted by Footnote 8 to Table 16C-E.
Add the following section:
1705.5.4  Shear walls and floor systems used as shear diaphragms. All connections, including nailing, tiedowns, framing clips, bolts and straps, for those parts of a lateral force resisting system utilizing the following components:
	1	Plywood diaphragms, where shear values exceed 2/3 the values in Tables 2306.3.1 and 2306.3.2.
	2	Double sheathed shear walls, in all cases.
	3	Plywood shear walls, wherever nailing or hardware are not visible to the district inspector at the time of cover-up inspection.
	If nailing is not visible to the inspector at the called inspection, or if the special inspector has not inspected the work prior to the concealment, all work concealing such nailing shall be removed in order to permit a complete inspection.
	4	Gypsum wallboard shearwalls where shear values exceed one-half of the values permitted by Footnote a of Table 2306.4.5.
	5	Fiberboard shearwalls where shear values exceed one-half of the values in Table 2306.4.4.
	6	Particle-board diaphragms, where shear values exceed one-half of the values in Table 2306.4.3.
Add the following sections:
1705.18  Demolition. Demolition of buildings more than two stories or 25 feet (7.62 m) in height. See Section 3303 for demolition requirements.
	EXCEPTION: Type V buildings.
1705.19  Bolts Installed in Existing Masonry or Concrete. Except for through bolts with plate washers conforming to Table 16C-E, bolts that are newly installed in existing masonry or concrete shall be tested in accordance with Section 1615C. The number and type of tests required shall be the same as required by Section 1607C.
1705.20  Construction subject to the Slope Protection Act, created by Section 106A.4.1.4; or construction of a new building or structure, or alterations that involve a substantial increase in the envelope of an existing building or structure within the Edgehill Mountain Slope Protection Area, created by Building Code Section 106A.4.1.2, or the Northwest Mt. Sutro Slope Protection Area, created by Building Code Section 106A.4.1.3; provided, however, that, until the special inspection reports required by Building Code Section 1704.2.4 are submitted to and approved by the Department, the phase of construction subsequent to the phase or element for which the report was completed cannot commence.
1705.21  Crane Safety. No owner or other person shall operate, authorize or permit the operation of a tower crane on a high-rise building structure until a signed Crane Site Safety Plan, Submittal Form and Crane Safety Compliance Agreement have been accepted by the Building Official.
Chapter 17A
STRUCTURAL TESTS AND SPECIAL INSPECTIONS
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 18
SOILS AND FOUNDATIONS
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 18A
SOILS AND FOUNDATIONS
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
	
Chapter 19
CONCRETE
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 19A
CONCRETE
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
	
Chapter 20
ALUMINUM
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
	
Chapter 21
MASONRY
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 21A
MASONRY
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 22
STEEL
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 22A
STEEL
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
	
Chapter 23
WOOD
SECTION 2304 – GENERAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
2304.11.2.6  Add the following second paragraph:
	Walls not accessible for maintenance shall have exterior covering of siding or plywood that are either treated wood or wood of natural resistance to decay. Plywood shall be exterior type, C-C Grade minimum, and not less than 1/2-inch (12.7 mm) thickness unless applied over sheathing. Plywood manufactured with redwood or cedar faces but with inner plys of other species conforming to DOC Standard PS1-95 may be used, provided the exposed outer face is plugged and not grooved or patterned.
2304.11.4.2  Replace this section with the following:
2304.11.4.2  Wood structural members. Wood structural members that support moisture permeable floors or roofs that are exposed to the weather, such as concrete or masonry slabs, shall be of naturally durable or preservative-treated wood unless separated from such floors or roofs by an impervious moisture barrier extending up the walls not less than 4 inches (101.6 mm) or shall otherwise be adequately flashed and counterflashed.
	Regardless of finish flooring type or structural materials, the wood sub-floor of toilet rooms and bathrooms shall be protected by a waterproof membrane. Where a single ply sheet membrane is used, all adhesives shall be of a waterproof type and shall be applied so as to form a full unbroken coat between the backing and the membrane being applied. All seams and joints shall be thoroughly sealed.
	Exception: Interior floors in Group R, Division 3 Occupancies.
2304.11.5  Add the following 2nd paragraph with exception, and 3rd paragraph:
	Weather-exposed stairways constructed with concrete, masonry, brick, tile or terrazzo shall be supported on hot-dipped galvanized steel or reinforced concrete stringers. 
	EXCEPTION: In Group R, Division 3 Occupancies, wood construction on masonry or concrete foundations may be used as supports, and the area under the stair shall be ventilated in compliance with 2304.11.9.
	Weather-exposed stairs of precast concrete or metal pan treads may be supported on wood stringers, provided the entire stairway is exposed and the treads are connected to the stringers by hot-dipped galvanized steel or other approved corrosion-resistant fasteners.
Chapter 24
GLASS AND GLAZING
SECTION 2405 – SLOPED GLAZING AND SKYLIGHTS
2405.3  Revise this exception as follows:
	3.	Any glazing material, including annealed glass, is permitted to be installed without screens in the sloped glazing systems of commercial or detached noncombustible green houses used exclusively for growing plants and not open to the public, provided that the height of the greenhouse at the ridge does not exceed 30 feet (9144 mm) above grade except that for R-3 occupancies and townhouses, the greenhouse height at the ridge does not exceed 20 feet (6096 mm) above grade. [CRC R308.6.6]
Chapter 25
GYPSUM BOARD AND PLASTER
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 26
PLASTIC
SECTION 2603 – FOAM PLASTIC INSULATION
2603.3  Revise the first sentence of Exception 3 as follows:
	3.	Foam plastic insulation that is part of a Class A, or B, [ß] roof-covering assembly provided the assembly with the foam plastic insulation satisfactorily passes FM 4450 or UL 1256.
2603.4.1.5  Revise this section as follows:
2603.4.1.5  Roofing. Foam plastic insulation under a roof assembly or roof covering that is installed in accordance with the code and the manufacturer's instructions shall be separated from the interior of the building by wood structural panel sheathing not less than 0.47 inch (11.9mm) in thickness bonded with exterior glue, and identified as Exposure 1 with edges supported by blocking, tongue-and-groove joints or other approved type of edge support, or an equivalent material. A thermal barrier is not required for foam plastic insulation that is a part of a Class A, or B, [ß] roof-covering assembly, provided the assembly with the foam plastic insulation satisfactorily passes FM 4450 or UL 1256.
2603.6  Revise this section as follows:
2603.6  Roofing. Foam plastic insulation meeting the requirements of Sections 2603.2, 2603.3 and 2603.4 shall be permitted as a part of a roof-covering assembly, provided the assembly with the foam plastic insulation is a Class A, or B, [ß] roofing assembly where tested in accordance with ASTM E 108 or UL 790.
Chapter 27
ELECTRICAL
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 28
MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 29
PLUMBING SYSTEMS
2902  Add the following section:
SECTION 2902 – MINIMUM PLUMBING FIXTURES
2902.1  Minimum Plumbing Fixtures. For new construction and changes of occupancy, plumbing fixtures shall be provided for the type of occupancy and in the minimum number shown in Table 2902.1. The minimum number of fixtures shown in Table 2902.1 is assumed to be based on 50 percent male and 50 percent female.
	Exception: Where circumstances dictate that a different ratio is needed, the adjustment shall be approved by the Building Official.
	The minimum number of plumbing fixtures required to serve existing occupancies shall be the number of fixtures required at the time of original construction or at the time of work previously performed under properly issued permits.
	A drinking fountain need not be provided in a drinking or dining establishment.
2902.2  Sanitary Facilities. Each building shall be provided with sanitary facilities, including provisions for accessibility.
2902.3  Accessibility for Persons with Disabilities. Where facilities for persons with disabilities are required, Chapter 11A or 11B of the California Building Code shall be used.
2902.4  Separate Facilities. Separate facilities shall be provided for each sex.
Exceptions:
	1.	In structures or tenant spaces with a total occupant load, including both employees and customers, of 15 or less.
	2.	In groups B, F, H, M, and S occupancies, where there are four or fewer employees.
TABLE 2902.1 – MINIMUM PLUMBING FIXTURES 1, 2, 3
TYPE OF BUILDING OR OCCUPANCY4WATER CLOSETS5
(Fixtures per person)LAVATORIES5
(Fixtures per person)BATHTUB OR SHOWER
(Fixtures per person)MaleFemaleMaleFemaleFor the occupancies listed below, use 30 square feet (2.78 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group AConference rooms, dining rooms, drinking establishments, exhibit rooms, gymnasiums, lounges, stages and similar uses including restaurants classified as Group B occupancies1: 1-251: 1-25one for each water closet up to four; then one for each two additional water closets2: 26-752: 26-753: 76-1253: 76-1254: 126- 2004: 126- 2005: 201- 3005: 201- 3006: 301- 4006: 301- 400Over 400, add one fixture for each additional 200 males or 150 females.For the assembly occupancies listed below, use the number of fixed seating or, where no fixed seating is provided, use 15square feet (1.39 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Assembly places–

Auditoriums, convention halls, dance floors, lodge rooms, stadiums and casinos1: 1-503: 1-501: 1-2001: 1-2002: 51-1004: 51-1002: 201- 4002: 201- 4003: 101- 1506: 101- 2003: 401- 7503: 401- 7504: 151- 3008: 201- 400Over 750, add one fixture for each additional 500 personsOver 300 males, add one fixture for each additional 200, and over 400 females add one for each 125.For the assembly occupancies listed below, use the number of fixed seating or, where no fixed seating is provided, use 30 square feet (2.29 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Worship placesPrincipal assembly areaone per 150one per 75one per two water closetsWorship placesEducational and activity unitone per 125one per 75one per two water closetsFor the occupancies listed below, use 200 square feet (18.58 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group BOffices or public buildings1: 1-151: 1-15one per two water closets2: 16-352: 16-353: 36-553: 36-55Over 55, add one for each 50 persons.For the occupancies listed below, use 50 square feet (4.65 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group E1: 1-151: 1-15one per 40one per 40Schools – for staff use2: 16-352: 16-35All schools3: 36-553: 36-55Over 55, add one fixture for each additional 40 persons.Schools – for student use1: 1-201: 1-201: 1-251: 1-25Day care2: 21-502: 21-502: 26-502: 26-50Over 50, add one fixture for each additional 50 persons.Over 50, add one fixture for each additional 50 persons.Elementary one per 30one per 25one per 35one per 35Secondaryone per 40one per 30one per 40one per 40Education Facilities other than Group E Others (colleges, universities, adult centers, etc.)one per 40one per 30one per 40one per 40For the occupancies listed below, use 2,000 square feet (185.8 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group F1: 1-101: 1-10one for each two water closetsone shower for each 15 persons exposed to excessive heat or to skin contamination with irritating materialsWorkshop, foundries and similar establishments, and Group H Occupancies2: 11-252: 11-253: 26-503: 26-504: 51-754: 51-755: 76-1005: 76-100Over 100, add one fixture for each additional 300 persons.For the occupancies listed below, use the designated application and 200 square feet (18.58 m2) per occupant of the general use area for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group IHospital waiting roomsone per room 
(usable by either sex)one per roomHospital general use areas1: 1-151: 1-15one per each two water closets2: 16-353: 16-353: 36-554: 36-55Over 55, add one fixture for each additional 40 persons.Hospital patient roomone per roomone per roomone per roomHospital ward roomone per eight patientsone per 10 patientsone per 20 patientsJails and reformatories	Cellone per cellone per cell	Exercise roomone per exercise roomone per exercise roomOther institutions (on each occupied floor)one per 25one per 25one per 10one per 10one per eightFor the occupancies listed below, use 200 square feet (18.58 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group MRetail or wholesale stores1: 1-501: 1-50one for each two water closets2: 51-1002: 51-2003: 101- 4003: 101- 2004: 201- 3005: 301- 400Over 400, add one fixture for each additional 500 males and one for each 150 females.For Group R Occupancies, dwelling units and hotel guest rooms, use the chart. For congregate residences, use 200 square feet (18.58 m2) for Group R, Division I Occupancies and 300 square feet (27.87 m2) for Group R, Division 3 Occupancies for the minimum plumbing fixtures.Group RDwelling unitsone per dwelling unitone per dwelling unitone per dwelling unitHotel guest roomsone per guest roomone per guest roomone per guest roomCongregate residencesone per 10one per 8one per 12one per 12one per eightAdd one fixture for each additional 25 males and one for each additional 20 females.Over 12, add one fixture for each additional 20 males and one for each additional 15 females.For females, add one bathtub per 30. Over 150, add one per 20.Group S
Warehouses1: 1-101: 1-10one per 40 occupants of each sexone shower for each 15 persons exposed to excessive heat or to skin contamination with poisonous, infectious or irritating materials2: 11-252: 11-253: 26-503: 26-504: 51-754: 51-755: 76-1005: 76-100Over 100, add one for each 300 males and females.NOTE: Occupant loads over 30 shall have one drinking fountain for each 150 occupants.
1	The figures shown are based on one fixture being the minimum required for the number of persons indicated or any fraction thereof.
2	Drinking fountains shall not be installed in toilet rooms.
3	When the design occupant load is less than 10 persons, a facility usable by either sex may be approved by the building official.
4	Any category not mentioned specifically or about which there are any questions shall be classified by the building official and included in the category which it most nearly resembles, based on the expected use of the plumbing facilities.
5	Where urinals are provided, one water closet less than the number specified may be provided for each urinal installed, except the number of water closets in such cases shall not be reduced to less than one half of the minimum specified.
6	Twenty-four inches (610 mm) of wash sink or 18 inches (457 mm) of a circular basin, when provided with water outlets for such space, shall be considered equivalent to one lavatory.
Chapter 30
ELEVATORS AND CONVEYING SYSTEMS
3010  Add the following section:
SECTION 3010 – PRIVATE RESIDENCE ELEVATORS
3010.1  PRIVATE RESIDENCE TYPE ELEVATOR is a power passenger elevator which is limited in size, capacity, rise and speed and is installed in a private residence or in a multiple dwelling as a means of access to a private residence.
3010.2  Construction. The construction and installation of private residence elevators, dumbwaiters, and private residence special access lifts shall comply with ANSI/ASME 17.1-1996.
[Note: For other than private residence elevators, dumbwaiters, and private residence special access lifts, see Title 8, California Code of Regulations, California Elevator Safety Regulations.]
Chapter 31
SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION
SECTION 3103 – TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
3103.1.1  Add this sentence to the end of the paragraph:
See Section 106A.1.7 for permit requirements.
SECTION 3107 – SIGNS
Replace this section with the following sections:
3107.1  General. [ß] Except as otherwise provided herein, all signs placed upon or attached to any building, structure or property shall comply with this chapter and shall be installed under a valid sign permit.
	The electrical portion of the sign shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the Electrical Code, and an electrical permit shall be obtained in accordance with that code.
	Plans shall be filed with the application for a permit for any sign. When required, computations shall be provided.
3107.1.1  Exempt signs. The following signs are exempt from the requirements of this code:
	1.	Signs painted on structures. However, such signs must comply with the San Francisco Planning Code, and an application shall be filed with the Department.
	2.	Bulletin boards for public, charitable or religious institutions, when such boards are located on the premises of said institutions.
	3.	Real estate signs advertising the sale, rental or lease of the premises on which they are maintained, which do not exceed 15 square feet (1.39 m2) in size, and which are mounted flush to the building.
	4.	Professional occupation signs denoting only the name and profession of an occupant in a commercial building, public institutional building or dwelling house, and not exceeding 3 square feet (0.278 m2) in area for each occupant.
3107.1.2  Prohibitions. The following prohibitions apply to signs:
	1.	No signs shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to block any exits or required windows. No sign shall be attached to a standpipe, gutter drain, stairway or fire escape, or interfere with the function or operation of any standpipe or fire escape. No roof sign shall be located within 6 feet (1.829 m) of a standpipe outlet.
	2.	No sign shall be increased in size, altered in shape or changed by the addition of other signs or advertising matter not specifically allowed by the provisions of this code and the San Francisco Planning Code.
	3.	No wall sign shall extend across or in front of any window or other exterior opening located above the first story of a building, except as approved by the Building Official.
	4.	No wall sign erected on a wall adjacent to and facing a street, public space or yard shall project above the parapet walls.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	On a building located on a corner lot, a wall sign may project a maximum of 7 feet (2.134 m) above the roof line on only one street.
	2.	On any frontage, signs not more than 10 feet (3.048 m) long for any 40-foot (12.19 m) frontage and occupying no more than 25 percent of the lot frontage may project a maximum of 7 feet (2.134 m) above the roof line.
3107.1.3  Permit number on sign. Every sign shall have the permit number clearly painted and maintained on its face or edge, and of such size and location as to be legible from the sidewalk level, ground level or an easily accessible location. Electric signs may have an approved metal tag attached to them instead of painted characters.
3107.1.4  Revocable permits. The permit for any sign over public property may be revoked. A permit granted under Chapter 1A and this chapter for a sign over public property shall not be construed to create any perpetual right but is a revocable license which may be terminated by revocation by the Board of Supervisors.
3107.1.5  Existing signs. This chapter shall not render unlawful the existence or maintenance of any sign erected or maintained by a lawful permit issued prior to the adoption of this ordinance.
	EXCEPTION: Signs for which lawful permits were issued and which, due to a sidewalk narrowing or street widening project, no longer conform to the requirements of Section 3107.3 shall be altered to conform not later than 90 days following completion of such project.
3107.2  Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms are defined as follows:
	APPROVED PLASTIC is a plastic material found to be suitable functionally for the purpose for which it is intended and which complies with the requirements of Chapter 26. For outdoor signs, the approval of the plastic shall be based upon considerations of flame spread value only. For indoor signs, the approval shall be based upon flame spread and smoke density values.
	AREA OF A SIGN is that area of exposed vertical surface which is included within a rectangle enclosing all the features of the sign. In cases of an irregular sign, it is the sum of the areas of the enclosing rectangles estimated to the nearest 5 square feet (0.465 m2).
	BUSINESS SIGN is a sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service, industry or other activity which is sold, offered or conducted on the premises upon which such sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
	SIGN is any structure, part thereof, or device or inscription which is located upon, attached to or painted, projected or represented on the exterior of any building or structure, including an awning, canopy, marquee or similar appendage, or affixed to the glass on the outside or inside of a window so as to be seen from the outside of the building, and which displays or includes any numeral, letter, word, model, banner, emblem, insignia, symbol, device, light, trademark or other representation used as, or in the nature of, an announcement, advertisement or designation by or of any person, firm, group, organization, place, commodity, product, service, business, profession, enterprise or industry. A sign includes the support, uprights and framework of the display.
3107.3  Height, Projection, and Location.
	Height, projection and location of all signs shall be as specified in Article 6 of the San Francisco Planning Code. No sign shall project past the curbline of any street, alley or public way.
	The minimum vertical clearance of signs over public sidewalks shall be 10 feet (3.048 m). Additionally, signs or portions within the outer one-third of a sidewalk shall have 12-foot (3.658 m) clearance, and when within 2 feet (0.61 m) of the curbline shall have 14-foot (4.267 m) clearance.
	Roof signs shall be not less than 5 feet (1.524 m) above the roof. Supports shall be spaced at least 6 feet (1.829 m) apart.
3107.4  Design.
	The design shall make allowances for the effects of corrosion and lack of maintenance.
	No anchor or support of any sign shall be connected to, or suspended by, an unbraced parapet wall, unless such wall is designed in accordance with the requirements for parapet walls specified in Chapter 16.
	Fasteners and braces shall be of noncombustible construction, except that stringers for attachment of roof signs may be of 6-inch (152.4 mm) minimum dimension redwood or approved preservative-treated lumber.
3107.5  Construction.
3107.5.1  General. All signs shall be constructed of noncombustible materials except that approved plastics may be used in sign facings as described in Section 3107.5.2. All ferrous metal and all fastenings used in construction or installation, excluding stainless steel, shall be hot-dipped galvanized, porcelain-enameled or otherwise protected in an approved manner against corrosion.
	Aluminum may only be used for minor internal members, such as stiffeners and closures, and for sign faces and nonstructural trim. The minimum thickness shall be 0.0299 inch (0.76 mm).
	Steel shapes or plates used for primary support shall be not less than 3/16 inch (4.76 mm) in thickness. Sheet metal formed integrally with the sign face or used as cabinet cover shall be not less than 0.0239 inch (24 gauge). Secondary support members not formed integrally with the design face shall be not less than 0.1046 (12 gauge) inch.
	The minimum material thickness requirements in this section pertain to the base metal before application of protective covering and need not apply to signs located inside a building.
3107.5.2  Plastics. Where plastics are included in a sign, the application to install a sign shall set forth the manufacturer's trade name, or the common name of the plastic material to be used in the sign, thickness of plastic, aspect ratio, corrugation type, if any, and span. The plastic employed in the signs shall be identified as set forth in Chapter 26 with the manufacturer's trade name, or with the common name of the plastic material.
	Plastic sign facing shall conform to the provisions of this section. Plastic sign faces, formed or flat, letters and decorations shall be of sufficient thickness or so formed or supported that they will withstand all loads required by this code.
	Plastic facing shall be mounted in a metal frame. Proper provision shall be made for the difference in thermal expansion between plastic members and the frame.
3107.5.3  Electric plastic signs. Every electric sign containing approved plastics shall comply with the minimum requirements set forth in the Standard for Electric Signs, UL No. 48. The attachment of Underwriters Laboratories label, or other approved laboratory per the Electrical Code, shall be sufficient proof that a sign has complied with the requirements of the Electrical Code.
3107.5.4  Wood-faced signs. Projecting signs with wood facing or backing are permitted on any building.
	Plywood used for signs shall be exterior grade and not less than 5/8-inch (15.88 mm) thickness. Lumber shall be not less than 1-inch (25.4 mm) nominal and shall be finished to provide a weather- resistant finish.
3107.6  Ground Signs.
3107.6.1  Height. The maximum height of a ground sign constructed with wood supports shall be 30 feet (9.14 m), as measured from the top of the sign to the sidewalk in front of the sign or the existing ground under the sign, whichever is higher.
3107.6.2  Design and construction. The design and construction of wood signs shall comply with Chapters 16 and 23 of this code. All wood within 12 inches of the ground shall be pressure-treated wood.
3107.7  Removal of Business Signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any business sign to remain posted more than 180 days after the activity for which the business sign has been posted has ceased operation on the premises if such person (1) owns, leases or rents the property on which the sign is posted, or (2) owns or operates such business, service, industry or other activity.
3111  Add a section as follows:
SECTION 3111 – WOODBURNING APPLIANCES
3111.1  Woodburning Appliances. All woodburning appliances installed in new buildings or woodburning appliances being added, reconstructed or replaced in existing buildings shall comply with this section.
	Gas fireplaces shall be exempt from the requirements of this section. However, the conversion of a gas fireplace to burn wood shall constitute the installation of a woodburning appliance and shall be subject to the requirements of this section.
3111.2  Definitions. The definitions set forth in this section shall govern the application and interpretation of this section.
	BAY AREA AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT DISTRICT means the air quality agency for the San Francisco Bay Area established pursuant to California Health and Safety Code Section 40200.
	EPA means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
	EPA CERTIFIED WOOD HEATER means any wood heater that meets the standards in Title 40, Part 60, Subpart AAA, Code of Federal Regulations in effect at the time of installation and is certified and labeled pursuant to those regulations.
	FIREPLACE means any permanently installed masonry or factory-built appliance that burns wood, except a pellet-fueled wood heater, designed to be used with an air-to-fuel ratio greater than or equal to 35 to one.
	GARBAGE means all solid, semisolid and liquid wastes generated from residential, commercial and industrial sources, including trash, refuse, rubbish, industrial wastes, asphaltic products, manure, vegetable or animal solids and semisolid wastes, and other discarded solid and semisolid wastes.
	GAS FIREPLACE means any device designed to burn natural gas in a manner that simulates the appearance of a woodburning fireplace.
	PAINTS means all exterior and interior house and trim paints, enamels, varnishes, lacquers, stains, primers, sealers, undercoatings, roof coatings, wood preservatives, shellacs, and other paints or paint-like products.
	PAINT SOLVENTS means all original solvents sold or used to thin paints or to clean up painting equipment.
	PELLET-FUELED WOOD HEATER means any appliance that burns wood and operates exclusively on wood pellets.
	RECONSTRUCTION means the complete rebuilding of the woodburning appliance such that all or a substantial portion of its parts are new. It does not include repairs made to the appliance in order to make it safer or more efficient.
	SOLID FUEL means wood or any other nongaseous or nonliquid fuel.
	TREATED WOOD means wood of any species that has been chemically impregnated, painted or similarly modified to improve resistance to insects or weathering. It does not include products such as Duraflame or Presto logs that are specifically designed and sold to be burned in a woodburning appliance.
	WASTE PETROLEUM PRODUCTS means any petroleum product other than gaseous fuels that has been refined from crude oil and has been used, and as a result of use has been contaminated with physical or chemical impurities.
	WOODBURNING APPLIANCE means fireplace, wood heater, or pellet-fueled wood heater or any similar device burning any solid fuel used for aesthetic or space-heating purposes.
	WOOD HEATER means a stove that burns wood.
3111.3  Unauthorized Appliances Prohibited. No person shall install a woodburning appliance that is not one of the following:
	1.	A pellet-fueled wood heater;
	2.	An EPA-certified wood heater; or
	3.	A fireplace certified by the Northern Sonoma Air Pollution Control District.
EXCEPTIONS:
		1.	Woodburning appliances that are designed primarily for food preparation in new or existing restaurants or bakeries.
		2.	Historic woodburning appliances installed in historic structures, as determined by the Building Official of the Department of Building Inspection in consultation with the Director of the Department of Planning.
3111.4  Prohibited Fuels. The following fuels are prohibited from use in a woodburning appliance:
	1.	Garbage;
	2.	Treated wood;
	3.	Plastic products;
	4.	Rubber products;
	5.	Waste petroleum products;
	6.	Paints or paint solvents;
	7.	Coal;
	8.	Glossy or colored paper;
	9.	Particle board; or
	10.	Saltwater driftwood.
3111.5  Certification. Any person who plans to install a woodburning appliance must submit documentation to the Building Official demonstrating that the appliance is a pellet-fueled wood heater, a certified wood heater, or a fireplace certified by Northern Sonoma Air Pollution Control District.
NOTE: Ordinance 13-02, adopted 1-14-2002, which amended Section 3102.8, contained the following findings:
	(a)	In 1982, the State Air Resources Board (ARB) adopted a particulate matter (PM10) Ambient Air Quality Standard (AAQS). Levels for the PM10 AAQS were selected pursuant to California Code of Regulations Title 17 Section 70200 to protect the health of people who are sensitive to exposure to fine particles.
	(b)	Research indicates that wood smoke is a significant contributor to PM10 levels that pose significant health risks.
	(c)	The City and County of San Francisco desires to lessen the risk to life and property from air pollution from woodburning appliances.
	(d)	The City and County of San Francisco finds that the proposed regulation will significantly reduce the increases in particulate emissions from future installation and construction activities.
	(e)	The City and County of San Francisco finds a need exists to adopt regulations which apply to woodburning combustion emissions.
Chapter 31A
RESERVED
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 31B [DPH]
PUBLIC SWIMMING POOLS
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 31C [DHS]
RADIATION
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 31D [DPH]
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 31E
RESERVED
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 31F [SLC]
MARINE OIL TERMINALS
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 32
ENCROACHMENTS INTO THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
SECTION 3201 – GENERAL
3201.4  Revise this section as follows:
3201.4  Drainage. Drainage water collected from a roof, awning, canopy, or marquee, and condensate from mechanical equipment shall be conducted to the building drain or building sewer, and shall not flow over a public walking surface.
SECTION 3202 – ENCROACHMENTS
3202.3.1  Replace this section as follows:
3202.3.1  Awnings, canopies, marquees and signs. Awnings, canopies, marquees and signs shall be constructed so as to support applicable loads as specified in Chapter 16. [ß] Canopies shall be allowed only over entrance doorways and only for Occupancy Groups A, B, F-1, M, S-1, S-2 and R. Canopies may be constructed as awnings and with the same limitations except that:
	1.	The maximum width shall be 10 feet (3.048 m); and
	2.	The maximum extension over public sidewalk may be to a point 2 feet (0.61 m) from the curb; and
	3.	The outer column support shall be located in the outer one-third of the sidewalk.
3202.3.2  Replace this section as follows:
3202.3.2  Windows, balconies, architectural features and mechanical equipment.
	[ß] A 3-foot (0.914 m) projection shall be permitted for bay and oriel windows when the clearance above grade is at least 10 feet (3.048 m) and the width of the sidewalk is greater than 9 feet (2.74 m). Where the sidewalk width is 9 feet (2.74 m) or less, the projection shall not exceed 2 feet (0.61 m).
	For all other appendages, a 2-foot (0.61 m) projection is permitted when the clearance above grade is at least 10 feet (3.048 m). The projection may be increased 1 inch (25.4 mm) for each additional foot of clearance over 10 feet (3.048 m), to a maximum of 4 feet (1.219 m).
3202.3.4  Add the following after the first paragraph as follows:
	A covered pedestrian walkway may be constructed over a street between buildings of only Types I-A and I-B construction. Permission from the Board of Supervisors and approval of the Department of Public Works and Planning Commission is required. The pedestrian walkway shall comply with the following conditions:
	1.	The pedestrian walkway shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system. The supporting structure shall be three-hour fire-resistive construction. Columns located within 8 feet (2.438 m) of the curb, or otherwise vulnerable to vehicle impact, shall either be designed for such impact or protected from the impact.
	2.	The openings in the exterior walls of the buildings at the ends of the pedestrian walkway shall be protected by 1½ hour fire assemblies.
3203  Add a section as follows:
SECTION 3203 – SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
3203.1  General. Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the Public Works Code.
	Sidewalks over excavated areas shall be supported on noncombustible construction with 3-hour fire-rated protection. The sidewalk shall be waterproofed by use of a hot mopped asphalt membrane or other approved means.
3203.2  Openings in Sidewalks.
3203.2.1  Sidewalk trapdoor. Every basement extending under the sidewalk shall have an approved sidewalk trapdoor. The minimum size of the trapdoor opening shall be 4 feet by 4 feet (1.219 m by 1.219 m). However, trapdoors shall not be required where the basement is provided with an automatic sprinkler system.
3203.2.2  Sidewalk elevators. All openings hereafter constructed in sidewalks for sidewalk elevators shall be located in the outer half of the sidewalks, next to the curb. The outer edges of the openings shall be not more than 30 inches (762 mm) from the outer line of the curb. The length of the sides of the openings at right angles to the curb shall not exceed one-half of the width of the sidewalk and in no case shall it exceed 5 feet (1.524 m).
3203.2.3  Any other purpose. Openings on the sidewalks for any other purpose, if placed outside the property line, shall be covered with approved gratings having a maximum opening between bars of ½ inch (12.7 mm), or with covers having a rough surface, and rabbeted flush with the sidewalk. When a cover is placed in any sidewalk, it shall be placed as near as practicable to the line of the curb. All spaces under sidewalks shall be thoroughly ventilated.
3203.2.4  Framing. All framing supporting only the sidewalk opening shall be of noncombustible material.
3203.2.5  Guards. Metal guards will be required for openings in sidewalks in accordance with the Police Code.
3203.3  Electrical Transformers. No portion of any electrical transformer pad shall be constructed, nor electrical transformer installed on the surface of any portion of any public sidewalk.
Chapter 33
SAFEGUARDS DURING CONSTRUCTION
SECTION 3302 – CONSTRUCTION SAFEGUARDS
3302  Add a new section as follows:
3302.4  Fencing. Provide for the enclosing, fencing, and boarding up or by fire watch or other means of preventing access to the site by unauthorized persons when work is not in progress.
SECTION 3303 – DEMOLITION
3303.1  Add new sections as follows:
3303.1.1  Buildings other than Type V. The demolition of structures of Types I, II, III and IV construction greater than two stories or 25 feet (7.62 m) in height shall comply with the requirements of this section.
	The requirements of this section shall also apply to the demolition of post-tensioned and pre-tensioned concrete structures.
3303.1.2  Required plans. Prior to approval of an application for a demolition permit, two sets of detailed plans shall be submitted for approval, showing the following:
	1.	The sequence of operation floor by floor, prepared by a registered civil engineer or licensed architect.
	2.	The location of standpipes.
	3.	The location and details of protective canopies.
	4.	The location of truck crane during operation.
	5.	Any necessary fence or barricade with lights.
	6.	Any floor or wall left standing.
	7.	The schedule of the days when the demolition will be done, i.e., on weekdays or on Sundays.
3303.4  Replace this section with the following:
3303.4  Vacant Lot.  [ß] When a building is demolished, the permittee must remove all debris and remove all parts of the structure above grade except those parts that are necessary to provide support for the adjoining property. 
3303.8  Add a new section as follows:
3303.8  Special Inspection. A registered civil engineer or licensed architect shall supervise the demolition work in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the Building Official pursuant to Section 104A.2.1 to assure the work is proceeding in a safe manner and shall submit written progress reports to the Department in accordance with Section 1704.2.4.
SECTION 3304 – SITE WORK
3304.1  Add a second paragraph as follows:
	The City and County of San Francisco adopts Appendix J for the purpose of regulating excavation and grading.
3304.1  Add a third paragraph as follows:
	Temporary wood shoring and forms. All wood used for temporary shoring, lagging or forms that will be backfilled against or otherwise left permanently in place below grade shall be treated wood as defined in Section 2302.
SECTION 3306 – PROTECTION OF PEDESTRIANS
3306.10  Add a section as follows:
3306.10   Chutes. Chutes for the removal of materials and debris shall be provided in all parts of demolition operations that are more than 20 feet (6.096 m) above the point where the removal of material is effected. Such chutes shall be completely enclosed. They shall not extend in an unbroken line for more than 25 feet (7.62 m) vertically but shall be equipped at intervals of 25 feet (7.62 m) or less with substantial stops or offsets to prevent descending material from attaining dangerous speeds.
	The bottom of each chute shall be equipped with a gate or stop with a suitable means for closing or regulating the flow of material.
	Chutes, floors, stairways and other places affected shall be watered sufficiently to keep down the dust.
3306.11  Add a section as follows:
3306.11  Falling Debris. Wood or other construction materials shall not be allowed to fall in large pieces onto an upper floor. Bulky materials, such as beams and columns, shall be lowered and not allowed to fall.
3306.12  Add a section as follows:
3306.12  Structure stability. In buildings of wood frame construction, the supporting structure shall not be removed until the parts of the structure being supported have been removed.
	In buildings with basements, the first floor construction shall not be removed until the basement walls are braced to prevent overturning, or an analysis acceptable to the Building Official is submitted which shows the walls to be stable without bracing.
SECTION 3307 – PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY
3307.1  Insert a note at the end of this section as follows:
3307.1  Protection required. Adjoining public and private property shall be protected from damage during construction, remodeling and demolition work. Protection must be provided for footings, foundations, party walls, chimneys, skylights, and roofs. Provisions shall be made to control water runoff and erosion during construction or demolition activities. The person making or causing an excavation to be made shall provide written notice to the owners of adjoining buildings advising them that the excavation is to be made and that the adjoining buildings should be protected. Said notification shall be delivered not less than 10 days prior to the scheduled starting date of the excavation.
	Note: Other requirements for protection of adjacent property of adjacent and depth to which protection is requested are defined by California Civil Code Section 832, and is reprinted herein for convenience.
		Section 832. Each coterminous owner is entitled to the lateral and subjacent support which his land receives from the adjoining land, subject to the right of the owner of the adjoining land to make proper and usual excavations on the same for purposes of construction or improvement, under the following conditions:
		1.	Any owner of land or his lessee intending to make or to permit an excavation shall give reasonable notice to the owner or owners of adjoining lands and of buildings or other structures, stating the depth to which such excavation is intended to be made, and when the excavating will begin.
		2.	In making any excavation, ordinary care and skill shall be used, and reasonable precautions taken to sustain the adjoining land as such, without regard to any building or other structure which may be thereon, and there shall be no liability for damage done to any such building or other structure by reason of the excavation, except as otherwise provided or allowed by law.
		3.	If at any time it appears that the excavation is to be of a greater depth than are the walls or foundations of any adjoining building or other structure, and is to be so close as to endanger the building or other structure in any way, then the owner of the building or other structure must be allowed at least 30 days, if he so desires, in which to take measures to protect the same from any damage, or in which to extend the foundations thereof, and he must be given for the same purposes reasonable license to enter on the land on which the excavation is to be or is being made.
		4.	If the excavation is intended to be or is deeper than the standard depth of foundations, which depth is defined to be a depth of nine feet below the adjacent curb level, at the point where the joint property line intersects the curb and if on the land of the coterminous owner there is any building or other structure the wall or foundation of which goes to standard depth or deeper then the owner of the land on which the excavation is being made shall, if given the necessary license to enter on the adjoining land, protect the said adjoining land and any such building or other structure thereon without cost to the owner thereof, from any damage by reason of the excavation, and shall be liable to the owner of such property for any such damage, excepting only for minor settlement cracks in buildings or other structures.
SECTION 3311 – STANDPIPES
3311.2  Replace this section with the following:
[ß]3311.2  Fire Safety During Demolition. All existing dry standpipes shall be maintained in an operative condition and with all inlets and outlets accessible for use within two floors of the highest remaining portion of a floor of the building. The inlets shall be so identified at the street level as to be easily located by the Fire Department. They shall be removed in place with floor removal and the upper ends capped above the highest remaining valve. The remaining system on the lower floors shall continue operative until all construction above the third floor has been removed.
Chapter 34
EXISTING STRUCTURES
SECTION 3401 – GENERAL
3401.1  Add the following section:
3401.1.4  General. Buildings, structures and property to which additions, alterations or repairs are made shall comply with all the requirements of this code for new facilities, except as specifically provided in this section, in the San Francisco Housing Code and in other applicable ordinances and regulations. See Section 3401.8.1 for provisions requiring installation of smoke detectors in existing Group R, Division 3 Occupancies.
3401.6  Add the following section:
3401.6  Alternative Compliance. Work performed in accordance with the International Existing Building Code shall be deemed to comply with the provisions of this chapter. 
Exceptions:
	1.	[OSHPD 2] Section 3401.6 not permitted by OSHPD.
	2.	Requirements of Section 3404.7.1 shall still apply.
[NOTE: 2012 International Building Code Errata indicate that "both 3410.5 and 3410.6 sections are correct, but printed in reverse order."]
3401.8.1  Add the following section:
3401.8.1  Additions, alterations or repairs to Group R occupancies. When the valuation of an addition, alteration or repair to a Group R Occupancy exceeds $1,000 and a permit is required, or when one or more sleeping rooms are added or created in existing Group R Occupancies, smoke alarms shall be installed in accordance with Section 907.
EXCEPTION: Repairs to the exterior surfaces of a Group R Occupancy are exempt from the requirements of this section.
3401.10.  Add the following section:
3401.10  Lateral Force Design Requirements for Existing Buildings. Whenever other provisions of this code require compliance with this section, the lateral force provisions of Section 1604.11 shall apply to the entire building or structure except as otherwise provided therein.
3401.11.  Add the following section:
3401.11  Homeless Shelters. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any addition, alteration, repair, installation, change or reconstruction of any building or structure, which is made in order to initiate, expand or continue a facility which, as approved by an authorized government agency, shelters otherwise homeless persons and which is operated by an organization exempt from federal income tax under Internal Revenue Code Sections 501(c)(3) or 501(d), shall meet only those requirements of this code which are determined by the Building Official, pursuant to rules and regulations adopted by the Building Official in accordance with Section 104A.1, after consultation with the Fire Department, to be necessary or appropriate to prevent a life hazard, or to prevent the building or structure from being or becoming substandard. With respect to minimum lateral force requirements, said bulletin shall not waive any requirement which can be satisfied by work eligible to receive financial assistance from the State of California. Any provisions waived by said bulletin shall be applied when homeless shelter use ceases and may be applied when homeless shelter use is reduced.
SECTION 3402 – DEFINITIONS
3402.1.  Add the following definition.
DISPROPORTIONATE DAMAGE. A condition of earthquake-related damage where:
	1.	The 0.3-second spectral acceleration at the building site as estimated by the United States Geological Survey for the earthquake in question is not more than 0.40 g; and
	2.	In any story, the vertical elements of the lateral-force-resisting system have suffered damage such that the lateral load-carrying capacity of the structure in any horizontal direction has been reduced by more than 10 percent from its pre-damage condition.
SECTION 3403 – ADDITIONS
3403.1  Add the following section:
3403.1.1  High-rise buildings. Any existing building or structure to which an addition is made which causes the building or structure to fall within the scope of Section 403 shall comply with the provisions of that section.
3403.4.1  Add the following section:
3403.4.1  Horizontal additions. Horizontal additions shall meet the following requirements:
	When the cumulative area of horizontal additions, excluding basement additions, exceeds 30 percent of the area of the original building or structure, excluding basements, and the additions are structurally interconnected to, or not separated to comply with ASCE 7-10 Section 12.12.3, the entire structure shall comply with Section 3401.10.
	For the purpose of this section, the term "original building or structure" shall mean the building or structure as it existed on May 21, 1973. The combined building or structure may be used for more restrictive occupancy classifications as determined in Chapter 3 only when the structure as a whole meets the requirements in this code for such occupancy.
SECTION 3404 – ALTERATIONS
3404.1.1  Add the following section:
3404.1.1.1  Stairways. Stairways that replace existing stairways in residential occupancies and which complied with the code in effect at the time they were constructed, and which have been adequately maintained and increased in relation to any increase in occupant load, alteration or addition, or any change in occupancy, may be reconstructed in the same configuration and construction as the existing stairways.
3404.7.  Add the following section:
3404.7  Substantial Change.
3404.7.1  Non-structural alterations. Whenever alteration work in a building or structure involves substantial changes to elements such as walls, partitions or ceilings, on 2/3 or more of the number of stories excluding basements, the building or structure as a whole shall comply with Section 3401.10. The term "substantial change" includes the addition, removal, repair or modification of such elements. All such work included in alteration permits issued within two years of the date of a permit application shall be included in the determination of whether the application is proposing substantial change to the building or structure.
	Removal and replacement of interior gypboard or plaster in Type V (wood frame) R3 occupancy (one or two residential units) is not considered as "Substantial Change." The replacement gypboard must be 5/8" Type X with 5d cooler nails @ 4 inches on center or equivalent screws.
3404.7.2  Add the following section:
3404.7.2  Structural alterations. When more than 30 percent, cumulative since May 21, 1973, of the floor and roof areas of the building or structure have been or are proposed to be involved in substantial structural alteration, the building or structure shall comply with Section 3401.10. The areas to be counted towards the 30 percent shall be those areas tributary to the vertical load carrying components (joists, beams, columns, walls and other structural components) that have been or will be removed, added or altered, as well as areas such as mezzanines, penthouses, roof structures and infilled courts and shafts.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	When such alterations involve only the lowest story of a wood frame building or structure and Section 3408 does not apply, only the lateral force resisting components in and below that story need comply with Section 3401.10, or
	2.	When such alterations involve the lowest story of a Type V building or structure of R3 occupancy and that floor's proposed use is as a garage, that level is exempt from Section 3404.7.2. Such alterations need not be counted as part of the cumulative total of tributary area of structural alterations.
3404.8  Add the following section:
3404.8  Mandatory Seismic Retrofit. Submittal documents shall include plans indicating locations and construction of existing, new and modified building elements used to comply with Chapter 34B.
SECTION 3405 – REPAIRS
3405.1.3  Add the following section:
3405.1.3  Repairs. Unless otherwise approved by the building official, all structural damage shall be repaired. Repairs to buildings or structures which have sustained substantial structural damage to lateral force resisting elements shall comply with the minimum lateral force design requirements of Section 3401.10. or with the code under which the building or structure was designed, whichever is more restrictive.
	Damage may be caused by events or a combination of events, including, but not limited to, fire, explosion, structural pest or wood-destroying organism attack, earthquake, wind storm, vehicular impact, ground subsidence or failure, or the collapse or dislodgement of any portion of any adjacent building or structure. The removal or alteration of structural elements as part of the work described in an approved building permit application shall not be considered to be "damage."
3405.2  Revise this section as follows:
3405.2.1  Evaluation. The building shall be evaluated by a registered design professional, and the evaluation findings shall be submitted to the code official within 60 days of completion of the evaluation. The evaluation shall establish whether the damaged building, if repaired to its predamage state, would comply with the provisions of this code for wind and earthquake loads. Evaluation for earthquake loads shall be required if the substantial structural damage was caused by or related to earthquake effects or if the building is in Seismic Design Category C, D, E or F.
	Wind loads for this evaluation shall be those prescribed in Section 1609. Earthquake loads for this evaluation, if required, shall be permitted to be 75 percent of those prescribed in Section 1613. Values of R, Wo and Cd for the existing seismic force-resisting system shall be those specified by this code for an ordinary system unless it is demonstrated that the existing system will provide performance equivalent to that of an intermediate or special system.
3405.4  Replace this section as follows:
3405.4  Less Than Substantial Structural Damage.
[ß]3405.4.1  Disproportionate damage. Buildings with disproportionate damage shall be subject to the requirements of Section 3405.2 for earthquake evaluation and rehabilitation as if they had substantial structural damage to vertical elements of the lateral-force-resisting system.
	Permit applications for required rehabilitation work shall be submitted to the Department within one (1) year after the earthquake, and the work shall be completed as specified in Table B of Section 106A.4.4.
3405.4.2  Other damage. For damage less than substantial structural damage that is not disproportionate damage, repairs shall be allowed that restore the building to its predamage state, based on material properties and design strengths applicable at the time of original construction. New structural members and connections used for this repair shall comply with the detailing provisions of this code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose and location.
SECTION 3408 – CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY
3408.4  Add the following section:
3408.4.1  Change of occupancy. In addition to the other requirements of this code, the term "comply with the requirements of this code for such division or group of occupancy," as used in this section, shall also mean compliance with the lateral force provisions of Section 3401.10 when the change results in an increase of more than 10 percent in the occupant load of the entire building or structure, and which also increases the occupant load by more than 100 persons as compared to the occupant load of the existing legal use or the use for which the building was originally designed.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	When a change of occupancy or use involves only one story of a building or structure, only the lateral force resisting elements in that story and all lateral force resisting elements below need comply with Section 3401.10.
	2.	A change from a Group R, Division 3 to a Group R, Division 1 or Division 2 Occupancy caused by the construction of a third dwelling unit in the lowest story of a building or structure shall comply with Section 3401.10 as provided in Exception 1 above.
SECTION 3410 – MOVED STRUCTURES
3410  Add the following section:
3410.2  Removal of Debris. Immediately after the building is moved and before it is occupied at the new site, the permittee must remove all debris and all walls and footings above grade at the site from which it has been moved, except where such walls provide support to adjacent buildings, structures or property. All excavated areas must be filled in or protected by substantial fences not less than 5 feet (1524 mm) in height.
SECTION 3414 – EXISTING HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS [SFM]
3414.27  Replace this section with the following sections:
3414.27  Automatic Sprinkler System – Existing High-Rise Buildings.
[ß]3414.27.1  General. Regardless of any other provisions of this code, every existing high-rise building as defined in Section 403.11.1 shall be provided with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system conforming to NFPA 13. Existing high-rise buildings that are also qualified historical buildings as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 18950 shall be provided with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system when and as required by the State Historical Building Code.
EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	An apartment house, condominium or other building used as a Group R, Division 2 Occupancy as defined in this code excluding tourist hotels as defined in Section 41.4(r) of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
	2.	A mixed-use occupancy building containing a Group R, Division 1 or Group R, Division 2 Occupancy.
3414.27.2  Additional. The following additional requirements shall also apply:
3414.27.2.1  Valves and devices. A sprinkler control valve and a waterflow detecting device shall be provided at the lateral connection to the riser for each floor.
3414.27.2.2  Signals. A separate and distinct supervisory signal shall be provided to indicate a condition that will impair the satisfactory operation of the sprinkler system. This shall include, but not be limited to, monitoring control valves, fire pump power supplies and pump running conditions. Such supervisory signals shall be annunciated at a constantly attended building security control center; when that location is not under constant supervision by qualified personnel, the signals shall be transmitted to a remote monitoring station in accordance with NFPA 72.
3414.27.2.3  Water supply. The minimum water supply requirement for the sprinkler shall be determined without regard to inside hose stream demand.
3414.27.2.4  Standpipe conversion. Existing standpipes may be converted to sprinkler risers, provided that they are hydrostatically tested for two hours at not less than 50 psi (345 Pa) in excess of the maximum pressure to be maintained in the system.
3414.27.2.5  Supports. Additional hangers, braces or other attachments for support of existing standpipes which have been converted in accordance with Section 3414.27.2.4 shall be provided if they are necessary to meet the requirements of NFPA 13. The installation of additional flexible fittings in such risers is not required.
3414.27.2.6  Pipe material. Any type pipe which has been listed by an approved testing agency for use in automatic sprinkler installations may be used when installed in accordance with its listing limitations.
3414.27.3  Permissible omissions. The following features required in new high-rise buildings are not required in systems installed under the provisions of this section:
	1.	Redundant fire pump;
	2.	Secondary on-site supply of water;
	3.	More than one fire department connection;
	4.	Connection of the system to two risers on each floor. Hydraulic calculations may consider all risers in service;
	5.	In a Group R, Division 1 or R-2 Occupancy building, sprinklers in bathrooms and closets.
	See Section 903.3.1.1.1 for additional permissible sprinkler omissions.
3414.27.4  Effective date. The effective date of these requirements shall be February 15, 1994.
3414.27.5  Notification. Not later than 60 days following the effective date of this ordinance, the Building Official shall notify in writing by certified mail the owner of each building within the scope of this section. The notice shall contain a copy of this section, a commentary on it and a notice of intent form. The notice of intent shall be designed to elicit information regarding proposed water supply connections, pumps, risers and existing partial sprinkler systems. The notice of intent shall include a tentative schedule for phasing the installation of the complete sprinkler system.
3414.27.5.1  Deferred notice. If a building within the scope of this section is not discovered by the Building Official until after the deadline for notification, the building owner shall be notified within 30 days of such discovery.
	Failure to receive notification does not exempt a building owner from compliance with this section.
3414.27.6  Authority of Building Official. The Building Official, in consultation with the San Francisco Fire Marshal, may approve modifications and alternate methods and materials when it is clearly evident that a reasonable degree of fire safety is provided. In such cases, the Building Official may:
	1.	Consider alternative protection based on nationally recognized standards, principles and tests, and generally recognized and well-established methods of fire protection;
	2.	Waive specific individual requirements if it can be shown that such requirements are not physically possible, require disproportionate effort or pose an undue hardship with little increase in life safety and that a practical alternate cannot be provided; and
	3.	Grant necessary extensions of time when it can be shown that the specific time periods are not physically practical or pose an undue hardship. The granting of an extension of time for compliance may be approved by the Building Official based on the showing of good cause and on approval of an acceptable, systematic, progressive plan of correction.
3414.27.7  Appeal of high-rise sprinkler requirements. Application may be made to the Board of Examiners in accordance with Section 105A.1 for approval of alternate methods, materials or types of construction or for variances from the provisions of this section.
3414.27.8  Implementation. The requirements stated in Section 3414.27.2 shall be accomplished by the following steps. Failure to complete any step within the required time frame is a violation of this code, and the Building Official shall have the power to abate the building in accordance with Section 102A.
3414.27.8.1  Step 1. Notice of intent. The owner shall submit a properly completed Department-provided notice of intent to the Building Official not later than three years after the effective date of this requirement.
	EXCEPTION: No notice of intent is required if an approved sprinkler system is completed prior to the deadline above.
3414.27.8.2  Step 2. Water supply. The owner shall install the system riser, including floor-control valves, and shall connect it to the approved automatic water supply not later than five years after the effective date of this ordinance. For purposes of this section, an automatic water supply shall consist of a connection to the public water works system and, if required by hydraulic analysis, installation of a fire pump.
3414.27.8.3  Step 3. Piping and sprinklers. The owner shall complete the sprinkler system, including required electrical monitoring, not later than 12 years after the effective date of this ordinance.
3414.27.8.4  Installation. The installation of all fire alarm equipment shall be in accordance with the Electrical Code and the California Fire Code.
3425  Add the following section:
SECTION 3425 – EXISTING BUILDINGS OR OTHER STRUCTURES LOCATED ON A MILITARY BASE SELECTED FOR CLOSURE
3425.1  General. As authorized by California Health and Safety Code Section 18941.7, a building or other structure that is located on a military base selected for closure by action of the federal Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission, including Naval Station Treasure Island (including Yerba Buena Island) and Hunters Point Naval Shipyard, may comply with the requirements of this code in a graduated manner over a period not to exceed three years, provided that:
	1.	The building or structure is in existence at the time the military base is selected for closure by action of the federal Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission;
	2.	The building or structure will be safe for its intended use and occupancy;
	3.	The building or structure is under a lease from the federal government to either the City and County of San Francisco or the Redevelopment Agency of the City and County of San Francisco (the "Redevelopment Agency");
	4.	The building or structure will be subleased by the City and County of San Francisco or Redevelopment Agency to either a private party, to the City and County of San Francisco or to the Redevelopment Agency; and
	5.	The building or structure meets the code compliance inspection and graduated compliance plan requirements set forth below.
3425.2  Presubleasing Code Compliance Inspections. Before the City and County of San Francisco or the Redevelopment Agency enters into any sublease of a building or structure, the public entity proposing to enter into the sublease shall request the Building Official and the San Francisco Fire Marshal (the "Fire Marshal") to inspect, or cause to be inspected, the building or structure for compliance with applicable codes, in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3425. The Building Official and the Fire Marshal shall issue a written report containing their findings on the compliance of the building or structure to the agency proposing to enter into the sublease. The Building Official and the Fire Marshal may, in their discretion, issue the compliance report jointly or separately.
3425.2.1  Applicable codes. The Building Official and the Fire Marshal shall evaluate the building or structure, including any alterations or changes in use if known, using the codes in effect at the time of original construction. If a determination of what codes were in effect at the time of original construction cannot be made, the Building Official and the Fire Marshal shall jointly determine which codes are appropriate for evaluation of the building or structure for the purposes herein.
3425.2.2  Notice to proposed subtenants. The Redevelopment Agency or the City and County of San Francisco agency proposing to enter into a sublease shall notify the proposed subtenant of the final compliance inspection reports for such building or structure by (a) attaching a copy of the final reports of the Building Official and Fire Marshal to the sublease; or (b) providing a copy of such reports to the subtenant and referencing such delivery in the sublease.
3425.3  Graduated Code Compliance Plan and Timetable.
3425.3.1  Buildings with no change in occupancy or use and no anticipated alterations.
3425.3.1.1  Complying building or structure. If, after performing the inspections required by Section 3425.2, the Building Official and the Fire Marshal concur that the building or structure complies with the applicable codes and will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation based on its intended use and occupancy, the Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal, will issue a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy.
3425.3.1.2  Remedial work required. If, after performing the inspection required by Section 3425.2, the Building Official and the Fire Marshal determine that remedial work is required so that the intended use and occupancy of the building or structure will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation, such work must be performed pursuant to building permits issued by the Department. All such remedial work shall either comply with current codes or be approved by the Building Official and the Fire Marshal as providing equivalent public safety. The Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal, shall determine that the building or structure is safe for occupancy as evidenced by the issuance of a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy or a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy. Such issuance shall not be a precondition to the execution of leases or subleases.
3425.3.1.3  Graduated compliance plan. A graduated plan of compliance with the applicable codes may be approved upon the concurrence of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal, provided that:
	1.	The Building Official and the Fire Marshal have issued a written determination that, in their respective opinions, the intended use and occupancy of the building or structure will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation. This determination may, in the discretion of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal, be issued jointly or separately;
	2.	The time for full compliance with the applicable codes does not exceed a period of three years from the date that the City and County of San Francisco or the Redevelopment Agency enters into a sublease;
	3.	All required remedial work either complies with current codes or is approved by the Building Official and the Fire Marshal as providing equivalent public safety; and
	4.	A Temporary Certificate of Occupancy is issued by the Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal, setting forth the approved graduated compliance plan and a timetable for full compliance with the applicable codes. The compliance plan may be amended only with the joint approval of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal. In no event may the time allowed for full code compliance extend beyond the three-year period.
3425.3.2  Buildings with no change in occupancy or use but with planned alterations.
3425.3.2.1  Complying building or structure. If, after performing the inspection required by Section 3425.2, the Building Official and the Fire Marshal concur that the building or structure meets current requirements for the new occupancy and will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation based on its intended use and occupancy, the Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal, shall cause a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy to be issued.
3425.3.2.2  Remedial work required. If, after performing the inspection required by 3425.2, the Building Official and the Fire Marshal determine that remedial work is required so that the intended use and occupancy of the building or structure will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation, such work must be done in conjunction with any planned alterations. A Temporary Certificate of Occupancy or a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy shall be issued by the Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal. Such issuance shall not be a precondition to the execution of leases or subleases.
3425.3.2.3  Graduated compliance plan. A graduated plan for compliance with the applicable codes may be approved with the concurrence of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal, provided that:
	1.	The Building Official and the Fire Marshal have issued a written determination that, in their respective opinions, the intended use and occupancy of the building or structure will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation. This determination may, in the discretion of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal, be issued jointly or separately;
	2.	The time for full compliance with the applicable codes does not exceed a period of three years from the date that the City and County of San Francisco or Redevelopment Agency enters into a sublease;
	3.	All new work either complies with current codes or is approved by the Building Official and the Fire Marshal as providing equivalent public safety; and
	4.	A Temporary Certificate of Occupancy setting forth the approved graduated compliance plan with a timetable for full compliance with the applicable codes is issued by the Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal. The compliance plan and timetable may be amended only with the joint approval of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal. In no event may the time allowed for full code compliance extend beyond the three-year period.
3425.3.3  Building with a change in occupancy or use but no anticipated alterations.
3425.3.3.1  Complying building or structure. If, after performing the inspection required by Section 3425.2, the Building Official and the Fire Marshal concur that the building or structure meets current requirements for the new occupancy and will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation based on its intended use and occupancy, the Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal, shall cause a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy to be issued.
3425.3.3.2  Remedial work required. If, after performing the inspection required by Section 3425.2, the Building Official and the Fire Marshal determine that remedial work is required so that the intended use and occupancy of the building or structure will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation, such work must be performed pursuant to building permits issued by the Department. All remedial work shall either comply with current codes or be approved by the Building Official and the Fire Marshal as providing equivalent public safety. The building or structure may not be occupied until the Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal, has caused the issuance of a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy.
3425.3.3.3  Graduated compliance plan. A graduated plan of compliance with the applicable codes may be approved with the concurrence of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal, provided that:
	1.	The Building Official and the Fire Marshal have issued a written determination that, in their respective opinions, the intended use and occupancy of the building or structure will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation. This determination may, in the discretion of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal, be issued jointly or separately;
	2.	The time for full compliance with the applicable codes does not exceed a period of three years from the date that the City and County of San Francisco or the Redevelopment Agency enters into a lease;
	3.	All required remedial work either complies with current codes or is approved by the Building Official and the Fire Marshal as providing equivalent public safety; and
	4.	A Temporary Certificate of Occupancy is issued by the Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal, setting forth the approved graduated compliance plan and a timetable for full compliance with the applicable codes. The compliance plan and timetable may be amended only with the joint approval of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal. In no event may the time allowed for full code compliance extend beyond the three-year period.
3425.3.4  Buildings with a change in occupancy or use and with planned alterations.
3425.3.4.1  Complying building or structure. If, after performing the inspection required by Section 3425.2, the Building Official and the Fire Marshal concur that the building or structure meets current requirements for the new occupancy and will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation based on its intended use and occupancy, the Building Official shall cause, with the approval of the Fire Marshal, the issuance of a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy upon completion and approval of the planned alteration work.
3425.3.4.2  Remedial work required. If, after performing the inspection required by Section 3425.2, the Building Official and the Fire Marshal concur that remedial work is required so that the intended use and occupancy of the building or structure will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation, that work must be done in conjunction with any planned alterations. The building or structure must meet current code requirements for the new occupancy. All remedial work must either comply with current codes or be approved by the Building Official and the Fire Marshal as providing equivalent public safety. The building or structure may not be occupied until the Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal, has caused a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy to be issued.
3425.3.4.3  Graduated compliance plan. A graduated plan of compliance with the applicable codes may be approved with the concurrence of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal, provided that:
	1.	The Building Official and the Fire Marshal have issued a written determination that, in their respective opinions, the intended use and occupancy of the building or structure will not be hazardous to life safety, fire safety, health or sanitation. This determination may be issued jointly or separately, in the discretion of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal;
	2.	The time for full compliance with the applicable codes does not exceed a period of three years from the date that the City and County of San Francisco or the Redevelopment Agency enters into a sublease;
	3.	All new work either complies with current codes or is approved by the Building Official and the Fire Marshal as providing equivalent public safety; and
	4.	A Temporary Certificate of Occupancy is issued by the Building Official, with the approval of the Fire Marshal, setting forth the approved graduated compliance plan and a timetable for full compliance with the applicable codes. The compliance plan and timetable may be amended only with the joint approval of the Building Official and the Fire Marshal. In no event may the time allowed for full code compliance extend beyond the three-year period.
3425.4  Enforcement.
3425.4.1  Notices of violation and orders to abate. The Department and the Fire Department shall provide to the Redevelopment Agency or City and County of San Francisco agency that has entered into a sublease a copy of any notice of violation or order to abate served upon a subtenant. The manner of service shall be as otherwise required by law.
3425.4.2  Revocation of certificate of final completion and occupancy. In the event that the Building Official or Fire Marshal issues an order to abate code violations and the order is not complied with during the time provided therein, the Building Official may, in writing, revoke the Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy.
3425.5  Fees. The Department and the Fire Department may charge the Redevelopment Agency or other appropriate City and County of San Francisco agencies fees for actual time and materials expended in responding to requests for inspection and performing other tasks associated with the graduated compliance plan program. Fees for permits and other services shall be as set forth in the San Francisco Building Code and San Francisco Fire Code.
3426  Add the following new section:
SECTION 3426 – WORK PRACTICES FOR LEAD-BASED PAINT ON PRE-1979 BUILDINGS AND STEEL STRUCTURES 
3426.1  General. Any buildings, structures, and properties on which the original construction was completed on or before December 31, 1978, or any steel structures to which lead-based paint disturbance or removal, including surface preparation, additions, alterations, repairs, or demolitions are made, shall comply with the requirements of this section.
3426.1.1  Purpose, intent and scope.
3426.1.1.1  Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure that any person undertaking activities that result in the disturbance or removal of interior or exterior lead-based paint on pre-1979 buildings, structures and properties and on steel structures uses work practices that minimize or eliminate the risk of lead contamination of the environment.
3426.1.1.2  Intent. The intent of this section is to encourage safe work practices for activities resulting in the disturbance or removal of lead-based paint while providing a reasonable level of health and safety for the occupants and the public at large.
3426.1.1.3  Scope.
3426.1.1.3.1  Interior. The requirements of this section apply to any activity resulting in the disturbance or removal of lead-based paint in the interior of pre-1979 buildings, structures and properties or portions thereof with one of the following occupancy classifications: Group E for Day Care and Group R, Divisions 1, 2 and 3. The requirements of this section with regard to the interior of a facility shall include, but are not limited to, residential-based family child-care facilities licensed by the State of California.
3426.1.1.3.2  Exterior. The requirements of this section apply to any activity resulting in the disturbance or removal of lead-based paint on the exterior of any pre-1979 buildings, structures and properties and any steel structures.
3426.2  Definitions. Except as otherwise specified herein, the terms used in this section shall have the same meanings as those set forth in Chapter 2 of this code.
	ACCREDITED LABORATORY means a laboratory that operates within the EPA National Lead Laboratory Accreditation Program.
	ADJACENT PROPERTIES means properties that adjoin the regulated area, including but not limited to properties next to and at the corners of lot lines.
	CERTIFIED LEAD INSPECTOR/ASSESSOR means any person licensed or certified by the California Department of Health Services (DHS), as authorized by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), in accordance with 40 CFR Part 745, subparts L or Q, to perform risk assessment and/or lead-based paint inspection.
	CLEARANCE INSPECTION means an on-site limited investigation using visual observation and sampling techniques performed by an independent certified lead inspector/assessor to verify the absence of lead-based paint hazards, as specified in Title 17, California Code of Regulations, Division 1, Chapter 8: Accreditation, Certification and Work Practices for Lead-Based Paint and Lead Hazards. Any analytical testing of sample(s) collected during such inspection shall be performed by an accredited laboratory.
	COMMON AREA means any interior part of a multi-unit residential building that is accessible to all occupants, including but not limited to: corridor, hallways, lobbies, laundry rooms, storage areas, stairways, porches and interior play areas.
	CONTAINMENT AND BARRIER SYSTEMS refers to various measures that prevent the migration of work debris beyond the regulated area, and usually includes the use of disposable polyethylene plastic sheeting that is at least 6 mils thick (or two layers each 3 mils thick) to protect the ground, floor or other interior surfaces, and to seal off windows, doors and ventilation openings.
	CONTRACTOR means any person, whether or not in possession of a valid State contractor's license, who undertakes to or offers to undertake to or purports to have the capacity to undertake to or submits a bid to, or does, by himself or herself or by or through others, any action that may or will disturb or remove lead-based paint. For purpose of this section, "contractor" shall also include subcontractors.
	DISTURB OR REMOVE LEAD-BASED PAINT means any action that creates friction, pressure, heat or a chemical reaction upon any lead-based paint on an interior or exterior surface so as to abrade, loosen, penetrate, cut through or eliminate paint from that surface. This term shall include all demolition and surface preparation activities that are performed upon any surface containing lead-based paint.
	EXTERIOR means the outside of a building or steel structure and the areas around it within the boundaries of the property, including without limitations the outside of any detached structures, including but not limited to outside and common walls, stairways, fences, light wells, breezeways, sheds, and garages.
	HEPA means a high efficiency particulate air filter.
	INTERIOR means the inside of a building, including but not limited to the inside of any detached structures, interior common walls, common areas, and overhangs (projections).
	LEAD means metallic lead and all inorganic compounds of lead.
	LEAD-BASED PAINT or LEAD PAINT means (1) any paint, varnish, shellac, or other coating on surfaces with lead in excess of 1.0 mg/cm2 (milligram per square centimeter) as measured by x-ray fluorescence (XRF) detector or laboratory analysis or in excess of 0.5 percent by weight, also expressed as 5,000 ppm (parts per million), 5,000 mg/g (micrograms per gram), or 5,000 mg/kg (milligrams per kilogram) as measured by laboratory analysis; or (2) any paint, varnish, shellac, or other coating found in the interior or on the exterior of pre-1979 buildings, structures, or properties or on the exterior of any steel structures, unless such paint, varnish, shellac or other coating is shown, by a lead-based paint testing, that it does not have the characteristics specified in (1).
	LEAD-BASED PAINT TESTING means testing of surfaces, by laboratory analysis of bulk sample or measurement using x-ray fluorescence detector, to determine the presence of lead-based paint performed by an independent certified lead inspector/assessor. Where laboratory analysis is used as a method of testing bulk paint samples, the laboratory shall be an accredited laboratory.
	PERSON shall have the same meaning as that defined in Chapter 2 of this code and shall also include any department, agency, or commission of the City and County of San Francisco, and State or federal agencies and departments to the extent allowable by law.
	PRE-1979 BUILDING means any building whose original construction was completed on or before December 31, 1978.
	PROHIBITED PRACTICES means any work practice that disturbs or removes lead-based paint using any of the following methods: (1) open flame burning or torching; (2) heat guns without containment and barrier systems, or operating above 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit (611.1 degrees Celsius) or causing the charring of paint; (3) hydroblasting or high-pressure washing without containment and barrier systems; (4) dry manual sanding or scraping, or machine sanding or grinding, or abrasive blasting or sandblasting without containment and barrier systems or a HEPA vacuum local exhaust tool. 
	REGULATED AREA means an area in the interior of any pre-1979 buildings, structures or properties with one of the following occupancy classifications: Group E for Day Care and Group R, Divisions 1, 2 and 3; or on the exterior of any pre-1979 buildings or any steel structures, in which work is being performed that disturbs or removes lead-based paint, and to which access is restricted in order to prevent migration of work debris. "Regulated area" shall also include any area contaminated with work debris as a result of a breach or lack of containment and barrier system, which constitutes a violation of the requirement set forth in Section 3426.4.2.
	RESPONSIBLE PARTY means either (1) the owner of the property where the owner or the owner's employees or persons otherwise under the control of the owner are performing the activities regulated under this section; or (2) the owner and the contractor where the owner has entered into a contract with another to carry out the activities regulated under this section.
	STEEL STRUCTURE means any structure that is not a building and which has exterior surfaces made of steel or other metal, such as bridges, billboards, walkways, water towers, steel tanks and roadway or railway overpasses.
	WORK DEBRIS means any debris, including without limitations paint chips and dust, resulting from any activity that disturbs or removes lead-based paint.
3426.3  General Prohibitions. No person shall disturb or remove lead-based paint through the use of prohibited practices, or in any other way that generates work debris during demolition or work on the interior of Occupancy Group E for Day Care and Group R, Divisions 1, 2 and 3 or exterior of any pre-1979 buildings or any steel structure except in accordance with the requirements of this section.
	For purposes of this section, all paint on the exterior of any pre-1979 building or any steel structure shall be presumed to be lead-based paint. Any person seeking to rebut this presumption shall establish through lead-based paint testing, or other means satisfactory to the Director, that the paint on the building or steel structure in question is not lead-based paint. Exemption: Work that disturbs or removes lead-based paint from the interior of an owner-occupied pre-1979 dwelling unit shall be exempted from the requirements for demolition or work on the interior of Occupancy Group R, Divisions 1, 2 and 3, provided that such unit is not a licensed childcare facility. Notwithstanding this exemption, the responsible parties shall take all reasonable measures to prevent the migration of work debris from the interior of the owner-occupied dwelling unit to the outside of such unit which includes, without limitations, any interior common areas and the exterior of the building, during the course of any work that disturbs or removes lead-based paint.
3426.4  Performance Standards.
3426.4.1  Restrict access. Any person performing work subject to this section shall restrict access by third parties to the regulated area, except as authorized by this section or until the regulated area is cleaned in accordance with Section 3426.4.4. This subsection shall not apply to regulated areas that are required for access or egress during the course of the work, such as common areas, and where no alternative exists for access or egress, in which case dust generation and migration shall be controlled through the use of HEPA-attached tools or other feasible containment and barrier systems that allow for access or egress.
3426.4.2  Containment and barrier systems. Any person performing work subject to this section shall establish containment and barrier systems that contains the work debris within the regulated area.
3426.4.2.1  Protect ground. Any person performing exterior work subject to this section shall, to the maximum extent possible, protect the ground from contamination by work debris by laying 6 mil plastic (or two layers each 3 mil thick) on the ground extending at least 10 feet (3048 mm) from the work surface when possible.
3426.4.2.2  Protect floor and furnishings. Any person performing interior work subject to this section shall protect with the use of 6 mil plastic (or two layers each 3 mil thick) any floors and other interior horizontal surfaces, carpets, rugs, drapes, curtains, blinds, shades and furniture in the regulated areas from work debris when it is impracticable to remove such items from the regulated areas during the course of the work.
3426.4.3  Prevent migration. Any person performing work subject to this section shall make all reasonable efforts to prevent the migration of work debris beyond the established containment and barrier systems during the course of the work. Such efforts may include, but are not limited to, providing secure 6 mil plastic (or two layers each 3 mil thick) protective covering, bagging, shrouding, and/or other safe containment and barrier systems to prevent the migration of work debris; covering and sealing any windows, vent openings and doors in the regulated area to prevent migration; and instituting measures to prevent the tracking of dust from the regulated areas.
3426.4.4  Clean up standards. At the completion of any work that disturbs or removes lead-based paint or when access to the regulated areas are required by State law or local ordinance during the course of such work, the responsible party shall:
3426.4.4.1  For interior work, make all efforts to remove all visible work debris from the regulated areas. Such efforts shall include but are not limited to wet clean with detergent any exposed interior horizontal hard surfaces in the regulated areas and HEPA vacuum the regulated areas.
3426.4.4.2  For exterior work, make all efforts to remove all visible work debris from the regulated areas.
3426.5  Notification Requirements.
3426.5.1  Notification to the Director. Except as otherwise authorized by this section, prior to the commencement of exterior work subject to this section, the owner or contractor shall provide written notice to the Director, either in person, by U.S. mail or by fax, of the following:
3426.5.1.1  The address and location of the project;
3426.5.1.2  The scope of work, including the specific location of the work to be performed;
3426.5.1.3  The methods and tools for paint disturbance and/or removal;
3426.5.1.4  The approximate age of the building or steel structure;
3426.5.1.5  The anticipated job start and completion dates for work subject to this section;
3426.5.1.6  Whether the building is residential or nonresidential, and whether it is owner-occupied or rental property;
3426.5.1.7  The dates by which the responsible party has or will fulfill any residential occupant or adjacent property notification requirements as described in Sections 3426.5.4, 3426.5.5 and 3426.5.6 below; and
3426.5.1.8  The name, address, telephone number and, if available, pager number of the party who will perform the specified work.
3426.5.1.9  The Director shall make available to the public a form containing blank spaces for the information required by Sections 3426.5.1.1 to 3426.5.1.8, inclusive.
3426.5.1.10  In lieu of the submission of the form set forth in Section 3426.5.1.9, the owner or contractor may submit the Lead Work Pre-Job Notification form required by the California Division of Occupational Health and Safety pursuant to Section 1532.1 of Title 8 of the California Code of Regulations.
3426.5.2  De minimis exemption. Any person performing exterior work that disturbs or removes less than 100 square feet or 100 linear feet of lead-based paint in total shall be exempted from the requirements of Section 3426.5.1.
3426.5.3  Sunset. Unless extended by the Board of Supervisors, the requirements of Section 3426.5.1 shall terminate two years from this effective date of this subparagraph. 
3426.5.4  Post sign. Not later than the commencement of work subject to this section, the owner or, where the owner has entered into a contract with a contractor to perform work subject to this section, the contractor shall post signs in a location or locations clearly visible at the access points to interior regulated areas, such as at the entrances of the affected residential unit(s) or common areas, and in the case of exterior work, shall post signs in a location or locations clearly visible to adjacent properties stating the following:
LEAD WORK IN PROGRESS
PUBLIC ACCESS TO REGULATED AREA PROHIBITED
POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SF BUILDING CODE SECTION 3426.5.4
3426.5.5  Requirements for sign. The sign required by Section 3426.5.4 shall be not less than 24 inches (609.6 mm) square and shall be in large boldface capital letters no less than ½ inch (12.7 mm) in size. The Director shall make available to the public a sign that complies with these requirements and states the required information in English, Chinese and Spanish. The sign required by this section shall remain in place until the work subject to this section has been completed. Where it is not possible to post signs in a conspicuous location or locations clearly visible at the access points to interior regulated areas, such as at the entrances of the affected residential unit(s) or common areas, and in the case of exterior work, in a location or locations clearly visible to the adjacent properties, the owner or, where the owner has entered into a contract with a contractor to perform work subject to this section, the contractor shall provide the notice in written form, such as a letter or memorandum, to the occupants of adjacent properties.
3426.5.6  Notice to residential occupants. Except as may be otherwise inconsistent with state law, where work subject to the requirements of this section is to be performed on a residential property or structure regulated by this section and occupied by one or more residential occupants, not less than three business days before work subject to this section is to commence, the owner shall provide the following information:
3426.5.6.1  The notice shall be in the form of a sign, letter or memorandum and shall prominently state the following:
	Work is scheduled to be performed beginning [date] on this property that may disturb or remove lead-based paint. The persons performing this work are required to follow State and local laws regulating work with lead-based paint. You may obtain information regarding State laws by calling the California Department of Health Services. You may obtain information regarding local laws, or report any suspected violations of these requirements, by calling the San Francisco Department of Building Inspection. In addition, you may obtain information regarding your rights as a tenant under the San Francisco Administrative Code, by calling the San Francisco Rent Stabilization Board. Finally, the owner of this property is required to provide residential occupants with a copy of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency pamphlet titled "Protect Your Family From Lead-Based Paint in Your Home," unless the owner has previously provided this pamphlet to residential occupants.
The Director shall make available to the public a form that states the required information in English, Chinese and Spanish.
3426.5.7  Early commencement of work. An owner may commence, or may authorize a contractor to commence, work subject to this section less than three business days after providing notices required in Sections 3426.5.6 above when the owner determines that such work must be commenced immediately in order to correct life-safety hazards.
3426.5.8  Early commencement of work requested by residential occupant. Upon written request of residential occupant, an owner may commence, or authorize a contractor to commence, work subject to this section less than three business days after providing notices required in Section 3426.5.6.
3426.6  Inspection and Sampling.
3426.6.1  Authority to inspect. The Director is authorized to inspect the interior or exterior of any building or steel structure upon which work subject to the requirements of this section is being performed for the purpose of determining whether the work is being carried out in accordance with the requirements of this section. This inspection authority shall be exercised in accordance with Section 104A.2.3 of this code.
3426.6.2  Response to complaint. Upon receiving a complaint, the Director shall (1) review the complaint; (2) determine whether a valid notification form has been filed with the Director for the property in compliance with the requirements of Section 3426.5.1; and (3) where deemed necessary by the Director, conduct an inspection at the job site within two business days to determine the validity of the complaint.
3426.6.3  Evaluation of complaint. When determining the validity of a complaint, if the Director is not able to observe the actual performance of any work practices constituting violations of Sections 3426.3, 3426.4 and/or 3426.5, the Director shall investigate and consider the following:
3426.6.3.1  The containment and barrier systems, work measures and work tools being used by the responsible party;
3426.6.3.2  The color(s) of paint being disturbed or removed by the responsible party;
3426.6.3.3  The color(s), quantities, nature and locations of work debris;
3426.6.3.4  The color(s), locations and conditions of paint on buildings or steel structures adjacent to the regulated area, including without limitations adjacent properties, to determine if such paint could be a source of the work debris;
3426.6.3.5  Any work being performed on adjacent properties which could be a source of the work debris; and
3426.6.3.6  A record of clearance inspection of the regulated area performed after the completion of the work regulated under this section or records of any lead-based paint testing performed for the regulated area, if available; and
3426.6.3.7  Any other relevant evidence that the Director determines in the exercise of his or her discretion would help to determine whether a violation of this section has occurred.
3426.6.4  Authority of Director. The Director or the Director of the Department of Public Health may also collect paint, dust and soil samples from the property where the work is being performed and from adjacent properties in order to determine the validity of a complaint. The Director shall have the authority to order a clearance inspection of the regulated area if he or she determines that there has been a violation of the requirements of Section 3426.3 or 3426.4.
3426.7  Enforcement. In addition to the enforcement authorities granted to the Director by Chapter 1 of this code, whenever the Director determines that a violation of the provisions of this section has occurred, the Director may assess an administrative penalty against the responsible parties pursuant to Section 3426.8. The notice of penalty shall be served on the party against whom the penalty is being assessed. The notice of penalty shall be final and shall be adopted by the Director as a Director's Order if the responsible party fails to appeal the notice of penalty as provided for in Subsection 3426.8.
3426.8  Penalties.
3426.8.1  In addition to any other penalties authorized by law, the Director may impose administrative penalties for violations of this section. Such penalty shall not exceed $500 per violation per day. In addition to the administrative penalties assessed pursuant to this section, the Director may assess additional fees to cover the reasonable costs incurred in enforcing the administrative penalties. Penalties and fees assessed shall continue to accrue against the responsible party or parties until the violation of this section is abated or otherwise remedied in the judgment of the Director. Each day in which the violation continues unabated constitutes a separate and distinct violation.
3426.8.1.1  Use of penalty. Any administrative penalty and fee received by the Treasurer of the City and County of San Francisco shall be placed in the Building Inspection Fund and used to offset the Department's costs in connection with the administration and enforcement of this section.
3426.8.2  Appeal penalty. A responsible party may appeal the imposition of the administrative penalty by requesting, in writing, a Director's hearing. Such appeal shall be made within 15 business days from the issuance of the notice of penalty and shall specify grounds for appealing the imposition of the administrative penalty. Upon a timely request for a Director's hearing, the Director shall conduct an administrative hearing in accordance with Section 3426.9.
3426.8.2.1  Alternative penalty. The Director, in his or her discretion, may allow a responsible party found to be in violation of this section to attend a training course approved by the State of California Department of Health Services in lead-related construction supervision and project monitoring in lieu of paying an administrative penalty pursuant to Section 3426.8.1 in which case the penalty is stayed until such time that the responsible party provides proof of satisfactory completion of the course. The Director shall require proof of attendance and satisfactory completion of the course, including certification from the instructor or provider of the course before dismissing the penalty assessed against the person. Failure to provide such proof when requested by the Director shall result in the reinstatement of the assessed penalty against the responsible party.
3426.8.2.1.1  Applicability. The alternative penalty set forth in Section 3426.8.2.1 shall only be available to persons who have not previously completed such a training course and who have not been previously found by the Director to be in violation of this section.
3426.9  Administrative Enforcement Procedures.
3426.9.1  Action by the Director. If the responsible parties failed to comply with the notice of violation, Stop Work Order and/or notice of penalty issued pursuant to this code, the Director may:
3426.9.1.1  Refer the matter for a hearing in accordance to the provision of this subsection; or
3426.9.1.2  Issue another notice of violation, Stop Work Order, and/or notice of penalty, if appropriate; or
3426.9.1.3  In the case where the responsible party is a contractor, file a complaint with the State Contractor Licensing Board.
3426.9.2  Notice of hearing. Notice of any hearing conducted under this section shall be given in accordance with Chapter 1 of this code.
3426.9.3  Hearing. Any hearing held pursuant to this section shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 1 of this code.
3426.9.4  Decision. Except as otherwise provided for in this subsection, any decision issued pursuant to this subsection shall be issued in accordance with Chapter 1A of this code.
3426.9.4.1  Where the order imposes administrative penalties, the order shall apprise the responsible parties of their rights to seek judicial review in the Superior Court of San Francisco pursuant to Section 1094.6 of the California Code of Civil Procedure.
3426.9.5  Posting and service of order. The Director's order shall be posted and served in accordance with Chapter 1A of this code.
3426.9.6  Appeal of order. Any person may appeal the nonmonetary portion of the Director's order issued pursuant to Section 3426.9.4, provided that such appeal is in writing and filed with the Abatement Appeals Board pursuant to Chapter 1A of this code. Upon the determination of the Clerk of the Abatement Appeals Board that all requirements to make an appeal have been met, the monetary portion of the Director's order shall be stayed pending the appeal.
3426.9.6.1  A responsible party against whom administrative penalties are imposed may seek judicial review of the monetary portion of the order by filing a writ of mandate with the Superior Court of San Francisco pursuant to Section 1094.6 of the California Code of Civil Procedure.
3426.9.7  Referral to the City Attorney's Office. If the responsible parties fail to comply with a final and nonappealable order, the Director may refer the order to the City Attorney's Office for civil prosecution. In any action brought by the City Attorney's Office to enforce a final and nonappealable order, the responsible party shall be liable for all costs and fees including, but are not limited, to attorneys fees incurred by the City.
3426.10  Miscellaneous.
3426.10.1  Method of service. Unless otherwise specified, any notices and orders issued pursuant to this section shall be served in accordance with Chapter 1A of this code.
3426.10.2  Proof of service. The person serving the notice or order as provided herein shall file an affidavit or declaration thereof under the penalty of perjury, certifying the time and manner in which such notice was given. Such person shall also file therewith any receipt card of such notice or order if service was performed by certified mail.
3426.11  Remedies and Enforcement by City Officials.
3426.11.1  No obligation by City. In undertaking the enforcement of this section, the City and County of San Francisco is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury.
3426.11.2  Discretionary duty. Subject to the limitations of due process, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, whenever the words "shall" or "must" are used in establishing a responsibility or duty of the City, its elected or appointed officers, employees or agents, it is the legislative intent that such words establish a discretionary responsibility or duty requiring the exercise of judgment and discretion.
3426.12  Severability. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this section is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this section. The Board of Supervisors declares that it would have passed each section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this section irrespective of the fact that any portion of this section could be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
3427  Add the following section:
SECTION 3427 — ASBESTOS INFORMATION AND NOTICE
3427.1  Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
	ASBESTOS means naturally occurring fibrous hydrated mineral silicates, chrysotile, crocidolite, amosite, fibrous tremolite, fibrous anthophyllite and fibrous actinolite.
	ASBESTOS-CONTAINING CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL means any manufactured construction material, including structural, mechanical and building material, which contains more than one percent asbestos by weight.
	ASBESTOS-RELATED WORK means any activity which by disturbing asbestos-containing construction materials may release asbestos fibers into the air and which is not related to its manufacture, the mining or excavation of asbestos-bearing ore or materials, or the installation or repair of automotive materials containing asbestos.
	MISCELLANEOUS MATERIAL means interior building material on structural components, structural members or fixtures, such as floor and ceiling tiles, and does not include surfacing material or thermal system insulation.
	NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING means any building as defined in this code except:
	1.	A building which is used exclusively as a single-dwelling unit or multiple-dwelling units and is not occupied as a mixed residential-commercial use;
	2.	A building owned or operated by the state or federal government and exempt from the building permit requirements under Section 106A.2;
	3.	A school building as defined in 15 U.S.C. 2642.
	SURFACING MATERIAL means material in a building that is sprayed-on, troweled-on or otherwise applied to surfaces, such as acoustical plaster on ceilings and fireproofing materials on structural members or other materials on surfaces for acoustical, fireproofing or other purposes.
	THERMAL SYSTEM INSULATION means material in a building applied to pipes, fittings, boilers, breeching, tanks, ducts or other interior structural components to prevent heat loss or gain, or water condensation, or for other purposes.
	TRANSFER OF TITLE means the conveyance of title to real property by one or more persons as a result of sale or exchange, and including the execution of a real property sales contract as defined in Section 2985 of the California Civil Code and any change in ownership described in subdivisions (c) and (h) of Section 61 and subdivision (c) of Section 64 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, with the following exceptions:
	1.	Transfers pursuant to court order, including, but not limited to, transfers ordered by a probate court in administration of an estate, transfers pursuant to a writ of execution, transfers by a trustee in bankruptcy, transfers by eminent domain or transfers resulting from a decree for specific performance;
	2.	Transfers to a mortgage by a mortgagor in default, transfers to a beneficiary of a deed of trust by a trustor in default, transfers by any foreclosure sale after default in an obligation secured by a mortgage, or transfer by a sale under a power of sale after a default in an obligation secured by a deed of trust or secured by any other instrument containing a power of sale;
	3.	Transfers by a fiduciary in the course of the administration of a guardianship, conservatorship or trust;
	4.	Transfers from one co-owner to one or more co-owners;
	5.	Transfers made to a spouse, or to a person or persons in the linear line of consanguinity of one or more of the transferors;
	6.	Transfers between spouses resulting from a decree of dissolution of a marriage or a decree of legal separation or from a property settlement agreement incidental to such decrees;
	7.	Transfers by the State Controller in the course of administering the Unclaimed Property Law, Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 1500) of Title 10 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure;
	8.	Transfers under the provisions of Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 3691) and Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 3771) of Part 6 of Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;
	9.	Transfers resulting by operation of law;
	10.	Transfers by which title to real property is reconveyed pursuant to a deed of trust.
3427.2  Asbestos Information Notice.
3427.2.1  Nonresidential disclosure. The seller of any nonresidential building, except a nonresidential building for which a building permit to erect the structure was filed with the Department on or after January 1, 1979, shall disclose to the buyer, prior to transfer of title, what efforts, if any, the seller has made to determine if the building contains asbestos-containing construction materials and provide relevant documentation of these efforts.
3427.2.2  Knowledge of seller. The seller of any nonresidential building, except a nonresidential building for which a building permit to erect the structure was filed with the Department on or after January 1, 1979, who knows that the nonresidential building contains asbestos-containing construction materials, shall provide notice to the buyer prior to transfer of title of the following:
	1.	The existence of, conclusions from and a description or list of the contents of any survey conducted to determine the existence and location of asbestos-containing construction materials within the nonresidential building. The seller shall provide copies of any documentation of the final survey results, including any documentation of the inspector's, laboratory's or consultant's asbestos inspection qualifications and state certification.
	2.	Locations within the nonresidential building identified by the survey or known to the seller where asbestos-containing construction materials in the form of surfacing material, thermal system insulation or miscellaneous material are present.
	3.	Any final operation and management plans prepared for the seller by consultants, agents or employees of the seller identifying procedures or handling restrictions to minimize or prevent disturbance, release or exposure to the asbestos-containing construction material.
	4.	Results of any bulk sample analysis or air monitoring conducted for or by the seller or within the seller's control, including reference to sampling and laboratory procedures utilized, and copies of the laboratory reports, monitoring data and sampling procedures.
	5.	Information in a final survey or other document prepared for the seller by consultants, agents or employees of the seller that (a) assesses the condition of asbestos-containing construction material in the form of surfacing material, thermal system insulation or miscellaneous material; or (b) evaluates the potential for exposure to building occupants.
3427.3  Asbestos-Related Work Sign Posting and Affidavits. In addition to any other requirements for notice set forth in this code, any person filing an application for a building permit to perform work in an apartment house or a residential hotel [as defined in Section 41.4(p) of the San Francisco Administrative Code], which work includes asbestos-related work as defined in this code, shall comply with the following requirements:
3427.3.1  Sign posting. Prior to commencement and for the duration of any asbestos-related work, post a sign readable at 20 feet (6.096 m) at each noncontiguous location where any asbestos-related work is performed in the apartment house or residential hotel, or in any appurtenant buildings thereto and facilities supplied in connection with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and parking facilities, stating "Danger - Asbestos. Cancer and Lung Hazard. Keep Out." Notwithstanding this requirement, if an owner or contractor of the owner subject to the requirements of California Labor Code Sections 6501.5 et seq., and regulations promulgated pursuant there-to, is in compliance with the requirements for posting locations of asbestos-related work, such owner or contractor shall be deemed to have complied with this requirement.
3427.3.2  Time of posting. Unless the requirement for plans and specifications is waived by the Director of the Department pursuant to Section 106A.3.2, provide a notice at least 72 hours prior to commencement of any asbestos-related work to the residential tenants in the building. The notice shall advise the residential tenants of the nature of the asbestos-related work to be performed, the date and time the work is scheduled to commence, the specific location or locations in the building where the work will occur, the name and address of the person or firm performing the work and the name and telephone number of a person to contact on site if the residential tenant has questions or concerns. The notice shall be provided in one of the following ways:
	1.	At least 72 hours prior to commencement and for the duration of any asbestos-related work, post a notice containing the required information in a conspicuous common area of the apartment house or residential hotel measuring 15 inches by 15 inches (381 mm × 381 mm); or
	2.	Mail, by first-class registered mail, a notice containing the required information to each person who rents or leases residential space in the apartment house or residential hotel, postmarked at least five days plus 72 hours prior to commencement of any asbestos-related work; or
	3.	Personally deliver a notice containing the required information to each person who rents or leases residential space in the apartment house or residential hotel, at least 72 hours prior to commencement of the asbestos-related work.
3427.3.2.1  Affidavits. The applicant shall thereafter submit an affidavit signed under penalty of perjury stating that the notice has been posted in the building or mailed or personally delivered to each person who rents or leases residential space in the building. See Chapter 1A-L Fee Table for Affidavit Record Maintenance, for fee to defray the cost of maintaining records of said affidavits. If there is reason to believe that the notice was not posted, mailed or personally delivered as required, the Director shall investigate the matter, shall provide the applicant an opportunity to respond to any complaint of noncompliance, shall determine whether the requirements of this section have been substantially met and shall revoke the permit if it is determined they have not been substantially met.
3427.3.3  Apartment house and residential hotel exclusions. Notwithstanding the definitions of apartment house or residential hotel [as defined in Section 41.4(p) of the San Francisco Administrative Code], those terms shall not include:
	1.	Any "school building" as defined in 15 U.S.C. Section 2642 as that section read on January 1, 1989;
	2.	Any "building" as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 25920, as that section read on September 27, 1989; or
	3.	The residential area of any multi-use building where the asbestos-related work is to occur solely in a commercial area, the commercial and residential areas of the building do not share supply air or return air handling systems, and the commercial area does not contain facilities supplied in connection with the use or occupancy of the residential area.
	NOTE: Contact Bay Area Air Quality Management District for pre-permit requirements for demolition and alteration work and other requirements for asbestos related work.
Chapter 34A
EXISTING STRUCTURES
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 34B
MANDATORY EARTHQUAKE RETROFIT OF WOOD FRAME BUILDINGS
Add chapter as follows:
SECTION 3401B – PURPOSE AND INTENT
	The purpose of this Chapter is to promote the health, safety, and welfare of San Francisco residents as well as the ability of the City and County of San Francisco to recover from a major earthquake by reducing the possibility of collapse, major structural damage, or risk of fire caused by an earthquake to certain wood-frame buildings.
	In furtherance of this purpose, this Chapter establishes seismic retrofit requirements intended to significantly reduce the collapse risk of residential buildings with critically vulnerable lower stories and to increase the likelihood that these buildings will be structurally safe to occupy shortly after an earthquake. The engineering criteria established by this Chapter generally limit the structural retrofit work to the ground story or to a basement or underfloor area that extends above grade where the most critical vulnerabilities are typically located, thereby improving building performance while limiting retrofit costs and impacts.
SECTION 3402B – SCOPE
	This Chapter shall apply to existing buildings, including mixed-occupancy buildings, that are Type V (wood-frame) construction of three or more stories or two stories over a basement or underfloor area that has any portion extending above grade, and containing five or more dwelling units and for which a permit for construction of a new building was applied for before January 1, 1978 or which is determined by the Department to have been originally constructed before January 1, 1978.
	Exceptions:
	1.	A building that has been seismically strengthened to meet or exceed the standards of Section 1604.11 of this Code or its predecessor provisions within 15 years prior to the operative date of this Chapter is exempt from this Chapter upon the submittal of documentation showing that such work was properly permitted, completed, and maintained as required by this Code, and that the Department has approved such documentation.
	2.	A building that has completed voluntary seismic strengthening under the provisions of Administrative Bulletin AB-094 is exempt from the requirements of this Chapter.
SECTION 3403B – DEFINITIONS.
	In addition to the definitions in Chapter 2 of this Code, the following definitions shall apply for purposes of this Chapter:
	DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit shall include any individual residential unit within either an R-1 or an R-2 occupancy building. It shall also include a guestroom, with or without a kitchen, within either a tourist or residential hotel or motel but shall not include a "housekeeping room." A dwelling unit shall include an area that is occupied as a dwelling unit, whether such is approved or unapproved for residential use.
	STORY. The first story of any building shall be considered a story, whether or not previously exempted from story count under an earlier edition of the San Francisco Building Code.
SECTION 3404B – COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS
3404B.1  General. The owner of each building subject to this Chapter shall comply with the reporting requirements of this section. If the building is not exempt and does not meet the minimum criteria specified in this Chapter, the owner shall cause the building to be retrofitted to conform to such criteria according to the compliance deadlines set forth in Table 34B-A. Notice of the compliance requirements shall be given by the Department pursuant to Section 3405B.4.
3404B.2  Screening form. The owner of a building who has been notified that their building is within the scope of this Chapter as well as all other owners of buildings that may be subject to this Chapter shall engage an architect or engineer to submit to the Department within the time limits set forth in Table 34B-A a properly completed Screening Form.
	Exception: Buildings exempt based on the exception in Section 3402B, Exception 2 of this Chapter may complete and submit the required Screening Form without engaging an architect or engineer.
3404B.2.1  Required information. The Screening Form to be developed by the Department shall be used to determine whether a building is or is not subject to the requirements of this Chapter, and to assign a building to the appropriate Compliance Tier. The Screening Form shall be completed by an architect as defined in Section 5500 of the California Business and Professions Code or by a civil or structural engineer registered pursuant to the provisions of Section 6700 et seq. of the California Business and Professions Code.
	The submitted Screening Form shall include:
		1.	all information required by the Department to determine compliance
requirements, and
		2.	whether the building is exempt based on Section 3402B, Exception 1 of this Chapter, and
		3.	a Declaration, based on a review of building information, of:
			(a)	whether the building is exempt because it is outside the scope of this Chapter based on its date of original permit application or construction, number of dwelling units, or number of stories, or
			(b)	if not exempt, the appropriate Compliance Tier.
3404B.2.2  Optional evaluation form. The Optional Evaluation Form to be developed by the Department shall be used to determine if an existing building already meets the criteria of Section 3406B.2 of this Chapter. The Optional Evaluation Form shall be completed by an architect as defined in Section 5500 of the California Business and Professions Code or by a civil or structural engineer registered pursuant to the provisions of Section 6700 et seq. of the California Business and Professions Code. The Optional Evaluation Form shall be accompanied by a completed Screening Form and shall include:
		1.	dates and scope of any seismic retrofit work, and
		2.	plans and other information as the Department may require that are sufficient to support the Declaration below, and
		3.	a Declaration of whether the building satisfies the evaluation criteria given in Section 3406B.2 of this Chapter.
3404B.3  Compliance Tiers. Each building not exempt from this Chapter shall be assigned to one of the following Compliance Tiers:
		1.	Tier I: Buildings that contain a Group A, E, R-2.1, R-3.1 or R-4 occupancy on any story.
		2.	Tier II: Buildings containing 15 or more dwelling units, except for buildings assigned to Tier I or Tier IV.
		3.	Tier III: Buildings not falling within the definition of another tier.
		4.	Tier IV: Buildings that contain a Group B or M occupancy on the first story or in a basement or underfloor area that has any portion extending above grade, and buildings that are in mapped liquefaction zones, except for buildings assigned to Tier I.
3404B.4  Application for a Building Permit. For each non-exempt and non-complying building, the owner or the owner's authorized agent shall submit to the Department an application for a building permit accompanied by the necessary permit submittal documents indicating the proposed seismic retrofit. A permit for this seismic retrofit work may include minor ancillary work but shall be separate from any other permits for building alterations or repairs unless such work is triggered by or integral to the seismic retrofit work. No work other than is required under current codes shall be triggered by this seismic retrofit work.
3404B.4.1  Compliance deadlines. Compliance deadlines for the submission of the Screening Form, Optional Evaluation Form, building permit application, and for completion of seismic retrofit work are given in Table 34B-A. No transfer of title shall alter the time limits for compliance.
3404B.4.2  Certificate of final completion and occupancy. A Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy indicating completion of the required seismic retrofit work shall be obtained upon completion of required seismic retrofit work.
3404B.4.3  Damaged buildings. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Table 34B-A Compliance Deadlines, if an as-yet unretrofitted building subject to this Chapter suffers damage from an earthquake or subsequent fire caused by the earthquake that renders the building uninhabitable, results in structural damage that triggers retrofit under regulations adopted by the Department of Building Inspection, or results in "disproportionate damage" as defined in this Code, such building shall comply with the requirements of this Chapter and other applicable Sections of this Code within one year of such damage. The Department may grant an extension of this time period for good cause. Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter does not supersede the requirement to comply with Section 3405.3 of this Code when otherwise required by this Code.
3404B.5  Historic Preservation. If any portion of the seismic retrofit work will be visible from the exterior of the subject property and the San Francisco Planning Department determines that the building is a historic resource, or if the interior of the building has been given landmark status, the seismic retrofit work shall be conducted in accordance with guidelines developed by the San Francisco Planning Department, taking into account provisions of the California Historical Building Code.
SECTION 3405B – PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND ADMINISTRATION; FEE
3405B.1  Administrative Bulletin. The Department shall prepare an Administrative Bulletin detailing the procedural and implementation requirements for this Chapter. Such procedures shall be generally consistent with the requirements set forth in this Chapter. The Administrative Bulletin may require sign-posting and other public information that the Department determines is necessary or appropriate.
3405B.2  Compliance Deadlines.
TABLE 34B-A
Compliance Deadlines (in years 1).
Compliance TierSubmission of Screening Form and Optional Evaluation FormSubmittal of Permit Application with Plans for Seismic Retrofit WorkCompletion of Work And Issuance of CFC 2I124II135III146IV157
1	All time periods are in years measured from 90 days after the operative date of this Chapter.
2	All time limits and extensions of Chapter 1A of this Code are applicable, except that all work is to be completed by December 31, 2020, as recommended in California Health & Safety Code Section 19160(1).
3405B.3  Administrative Fee. The fee for services provided by the Department under this Chapter shall be the Standard Hourly Rate for Plan Review and Administration set forth in Table 1A-D of this Code. There shall be no fee required for submittal or review of the Screening Form required by Section 3404B.2. A minimum fee corresponding to two hours for plan review and administration is payable upon submittal of a voluntary Optional Evaluation Form. Additional fees may be charged at the Standard Hourly Rate for additional work and will be payable within 30 days of the Department's notice that payment is due.
3405B.4  Notice.
3405B.4.1  Service of notice on owner. No later than 90 days after the operative date of this Chapter, the Department shall send a notice in accordance with Section 102A.4.2 of this Code to the owner of each building believed to be within the scope of this Chapter. The notice shall inform the owner of the requirement to comply with the provisions of this Chapter, and shall be accompanied by a Screening Form and an informational letter or brochure. Any person who believes that a building that is within the scope of this Chapter has not been so identified by the Department may notify the Department of the address or location of such building. If the Department determines upon review of the building and/or building records that the building may be within the scope of this Chapter, the Department shall provide notice to the owner as provided in this Section.
3405B.4.2  Failure to give or receive notice. If the owner of a building within the scope of this Chapter has knowledge that they own such a building, then the failure of the Department to issue the notice required by this Section, or the failure of the owner to receive such a notice, shall not relieve the owner of the obligation to comply with the requirements of this Chapter within the time limits set forth in Table 34B-A. For a building not known to the Department to be within the scope of this Chapter and whose owner or owners have no knowledge that the building is within the scope of this Chapter, the time limits set forth in Table 34B-A shall commence upon an owner having actual or constructive notice that the building may be within the scope of this Chapter. In no case, however, shall the final completion date be extended without the approval of the Board of Examiners after hearing an appeal pursuant to Section 3405B.5.
3405B.4.3  Notice to public on Department's website. A list of the buildings by street address and by block and lot for which notice has been given under this Section shall be maintained and made public on the Department's website.
3405B.5  Appeals. The owner of any building subject to this Chapter may appeal to the Board of Examiners any determination made by the Department with respect to compliance with the technical requirements of this Chapter. Such appeal shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 105A of this Code. The time limits for compliance established by Table 34B-A shall not be extended during any appeal period unless specifically approved by the Board of Examiners. Any person may appeal a determination of the Director related to this Chapter to the Building Inspection Commission pursuant to Chapter 77 of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
3405B.6  Enforcement. Whenever any required action has not been completed within the time limits set forth in Table 34B-A, the Department shall abate the violation in accordance with Section 102A of this Code.
3405B.6.1  Posting of notice. An enforcement action shall, in every case, include the Department posting of the building with a standard Department notice stating as follows:
		"Earthquake Warning. This building is in violation of the requirements of the San Francisco Building Code regarding earthquake safety."
This notice shall not be removed until the building is in compliance with this Chapter. This notice shall also be recorded against the title of the building. The Building Official shall cause a release of such notice to be filed with the Assessor-Recorder's Office upon conformance with the requirements of this Chapter.
SECTION 3406B – ENGINEERING CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION AND RETROFIT
3406B.1  General. This Chapter requires that evaluation and/or retrofit of buildings within its scope be undertaken using the engineering criteria established in this section.
3406B.2  Engineering Criteria. A proposed seismic evaluation and/or retrofit plan shall demonstrate that the building satisfies one of the following:
		1.	FEMA P-807, Seismic Evaluation and Retrofit of Multi-Unit Wood-Frame Buildings With Weak First Stories, as detailed in an Administrative Bulletin to be prepared pursuant to 3406B.3 of this ordinance, with the performance objective of 30 percent maximum probability of exceedance of Onset of Strength Loss drift limits with a spectral demand equal to 0.50 SMS, or
		2.	ASCE 41-13, Seismic Evaluation and Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings, with the performance objective of Structural Life Safety in the BSE-1E earthquake, or
		3.	ASCE 41-06, Seismic Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings, with the performance objective of Structural Life Safety in the BSE-1 earthquake with earthquake loads multiplied by 75 percent, or
		4.	for evaluation only, ASCE 31-03, Seismic Evaluation of Existing Buildings, with the performance level of Life Safety, or
		5.	for retrofit only, 2012 International Existing Building Code (IEBC) Appendix A-4, or
		6.	any other rational design basis deemed acceptable by the Department that meets or exceeds the intent of this Chapter.
	For retrofits demonstrating compliance through the use of ASCE 41-06, ASCE 41-13, or IEBC Appendix A4, the strength of the retrofitted story need not exceed 1.3 times the strength of the story above. For Site Class E, a factor of 1.3 shall be required for the short-period spectral acceleration/demand.
3406B.3  Alternative Retrofit Criteria. A proposed seismic retrofit plan which fails to meet the criteria of 3406B.2(1) or 3406B.2(5) shall be deemed to comply with this Chapter if, with the approval of the Department, it satisfies the intent of FEMA P-807, Section 6.4.2 with a maximum acceptable Onset of Strength Loss drift limit probability of exceedance of 50 percent.
	Exception: Alternative retrofit criteria shall not apply to buildings in which the critical stories, basements, or underfloor areas contain other than parking, storage, or utility uses or occupancies.
3406B.4.  Administrative Bulletin for Technical Requirements. The Department shall develop and publish one or more Administrative Bulletins that detail the technical requirements to be used for the evaluation and retrofitting of buildings required to meet the criteria established in Section 3406B.2.
Editor's Note:
	See Administrative Bulletin AB-107.
3406B.5  Conformance Period. Any building retrofitted in compliance with this Chapter and properly maintained, shall not, within a period of 15 years after the operative date of this Chapter, be identified as a seismic hazard pursuant to any local building standards adopted after the date of the building seismic retrofit unless the building incurred disproportionate damage, or otherwise has been damaged or altered so that it no longer meets the engineering criteria under which it was retrofitted.
3406B.6  Compliance with this Chapter does not supersede the requirements for compliance with Section 3401.B when otherwise required under Chapter 34 of this Code. A permit issued solely for compliance with the provisions of this Chapter shall not be considered a "substantial change" or "structural work" as defined in Chapter 34 and compliance with Section 3401.10 will not be required by such work.
Chapter 35
REFERENCED STANDARDS
	No San Francisco Building Code Amendments.
Chapter 36
CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL CODE (CRC)
Add chapter as follows:
(CRC) CHAPTER 1
SCOPE AND APPLICATION
Replace this chapter with Chapter 1 & 1A of the San Francisco Building Code.
See Chapter 1A for the Administration provisions of the San Francisco Building Code.
(CRC) CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
Replace this chapter with Chapter 2 through 35 of the San Francisco Building Code.
(CRC) CHAPTER 3
BUILDING PLANNING
Replace this chapter with Chapter 2 through 35 of the San Francisco Building Code
(CRC) CHAPTER 4
FOUNDATIONS
Replace this chapter with Chapter 2 through 35 of the San Francisco Building Code
(CRC) CHAPTER 5
FLOORS
Replace this chapter with Chapter 2 through 35 of the San Francisco Building Code
(CRC) CHAPTER 6
WALL CONSTRUCTION
Replace this chapter with Chapter 2 through 35 of the San Francisco Building Code
(CRC) CHAPTER 7
WALL COVERING
Replace this chapter with Chapter 2 through 35 of the San Francisco Building Code
(CRC) CHAPTER 8
ROOF CEILING CONSTRUCTION
Replace this chapter with Chapter 2 through 35 of the San Francisco Building Code
(CRC) CHAPTER 9
ROOF ASSEMBLIES
Replace this chapter with Chapter 2 through 35 of the San Francisco Building Code
(CRC) CHAPTER 10
CHIMNEYS AND FIREPLACES
Replace this chapter with Chapter 2 through 35 of the San Francisco Building Code
(CRC) CHAPTER 44
REFERENCED STANDARDS
Replace this chapter with Chapters 35 of the San Francisco Building Code
(CRC) APPENDIX A
SIZING AND CAPACITIES OF GAS PIPING
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX B
SIZING OF VENTING SYSTEMS SERVING APPLIANCES EQUIPPED WITH DRAFT HOODS, CATEGORY 1 APPLIANCES, AND APPLIANCES LISTED FOR USE WITH TYPE B VENTS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX C
EXIT TERMINALS OF MECHANICAL DRAFT AND DIRECT-VENT VENTING SYSTEMS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX D
RECOMMENDED PROCEDURE FOR SAFETY INSPECTION OF AN EXISTING APPLIANCE INSTALLATION
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX E
MANUFACTURED HOUSING USED AS DWELLINGS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX F
RADON CONTROL METHODS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX G
SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX H
PATIO COVERS
Replace this chapter with Appendix I of the San Francisco Building Code
(CRC) APPENDIX I
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX J
EXISTING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX K
SOUND TRANSMISSION
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX L
PERMIT FEES
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX M
HOME DAY CARE R-3 OCCUPANCY
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco or applicable in California
(CRC) APPENDIX N
VENTING METHODS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX O
GRAY WATER RECYCLING SYSTEMS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX P
SIZING OF WATER PIPING SYSTEM
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX Q
ICC INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE ELECTRICAL PROVISIONS/NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE CROSS-REFERENCE
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CRC) APPENDIX R
AREAS PROTECTED BY THE FACILITIES OF THE CENTRAL VALLEY FLOOD PROTECTION PLAN
Replace this chapter with Appendix K of the San Francisco Building Code

CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE (CBC)
APPENDICES
Add appendices as follows:
(CBC) APPENDIX A
EMPLOYEE QUALIFICATIONS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CBC) APPENDIX B
BOARD OF APPEALS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CBC) APPENDIX C
GROUP U-AGRICULTURAL BUILDINGS
No San Francisco Building Code Amendments
(CBC) APPENDIX D
FIRE DISTRICTS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CBC) APPENDIX E
RESERVED
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CBC) APPENDIX F
RODENT PROOFING
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CBC) APPENDIX G
FLOOD-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CBC) APPENDIX H
SIGNS
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CBC) APPENDIX I
PATIO COVERS
No San Francisco Building Code Amendments
APPENDIX J
GRADING
San Francisco adopts Appendix J as amended below for grading in San Francisco
SECTION J103 – PERMITS REQUIRED
JI03.2  Add the following five exemptions:
	8.	An excavation that (1) is less 2 feet (610 mm) in depth or (2) does not create a cut slope greater than 5 feet (1524 mm) in height and steeper than 1 unit vertical in 1-1/2 units horizontal (66.7% slope).
	9.	A fill less than 1 foot (305 mm) in depth and placed on natural terrain with a slope flatter than 1 unit vertical in 5 units horizontal (20% slope), or less than 3 feet (914 mm) in depth, not intended to support structures, that does not exceed 50 cubic yards (38.3 m3) on any one lot and does not obstruct a drainage course.
	10.	Grading performed incidental to and in connection with the construction of a building or structure on a single lot, pursuant to a valid building permit issued therefor. The cost of such grading shall be included in the total valuation of the building for determining permit fees, and a separate grading permit will not be required.
	11.	Grading necessary for and incidental to and in connection with the construction of any parks, public streets or roadways, or the construction of sewers, or utilities under or within the boundaries of such roadways or streets when such work is under the direct supervision of the Recreation and Park Department, the Department of Public Works, the Public Utilities Commission or other governmental agencies.
	12.	Grading operations which in the opinion of the Director are of such a minor nature that the proposed work will not affect the adjoining land, or any existing structures, either those on the same or adjoining land. For such grading operations, the requirements of this chapter may be waived in whole or in part.
SECTION J104 – PERMIT APPLICATION AND SUBMITTALS
J104.3  Replace the exception as follows:
[ß]	Exception: Grading conforming to all of the following requirements:
	1.	No cut section is greater than 10 feet (3.048 m) in vertical height.
	2.	No cut slope is steeper than 2 horizontal to 1 vertical.
	3.	The tops of cut banks are separated from any structure or major improvement by a distance, measured horizontally, equal to not less than the height of the bank.
	4.	Not more than 5,000 cubic yards (3825 m3) shall be involved in grading.
	5.	Grading performed at a site outside the limits of known slide areas.
	All other grading shall require soils report and the grading plans shall include, but not limited to, the following information:
	(1)	The design of retaining walls or other structures used to support cuts or fills. Such retaining walls or structures, except when part of a building, may be constructed under this permit, provided the cost of same is included in the valuation shown on the application.
	(2)	The sequencing of cut and fill operations in a manner that assures interim stability of the site.
SECTION J106 – EXCAVATIONS
J106.1  Delete all exceptions.
SECTION J109 – DRAINAGE AND TERRACING
J109  Add the following section:
J109.5  Surface Drainage. All areas which are surfaced with asphalt, concrete or other paving of similar imperviousness, and which exceed a total area of 200 square feet (18.58 m2), shall have storm- and casual water drained directly to a public sewer or storm drain. 
	Drainage shall not be directed to flow onto adjacent property or to drain onto public sidewalks. See Section 1503.4 for roof drainage.
J113  Add the following section:
SECTION J113 – GRADING FEES
	The permit and the plan review fees shall be per Section 110A, Table 1A-F - Specialty Permit Fees, Table 1A-A – Building Permit Fees. The valuation shall be based on the volume of earthwork.
(CBC) APPENDIX K
GROUP R-3 AND GROUP R-3.1 OCCUPANCIES PROTECTED BY THE FACILITIES OF THE CENTRAL VALLEY FLOOD PROTECTION PLAN
This appendix is not adopted in San Francisco
(CBC) APPENDIX L
EARTHQUAKE RECORDING INSTRUMENTATION
No San Francisco Building Code Amendments
ADMINISTRATIVE BULLETINS
Printed in the 2013 San Francisco Building Code
AB#		TITLES
AB-001	Preparing Administrative Bulletins
AB-004	Priority Permit Processing Guidelines
AB-005	Local Equivalency Case-by-Case Application Procedures
[AB-006	Accessible Restrooms Located within a Reasonable Distance: Held for Revision]
[AB-007	High-Top Van Parking Equivalent Facilitation: Held for Revision]
[AB-008	Elevator Cab Size Equivalent Facilitation: Held for Revision]
AB-009	Local Equivalency for Approval of New Openings in New and Existing Building Property Line Walls
AB-010	Local Equivalency for Approval of Communicating Openings Between Buildings on Separate Properties
[AB-011	Use of Powered Door Operators in Lieu of Exterior and Interior Door Side Clearances: Held for Revision]
[AB-012	Use of Powered Door Operators in Lieu of Level Landings at Doors: Held for Revision]
AB-013	Application of Disabled Access Provisions to Historic Buildings
[AB-014	Dimensional Tolerances for New and Existing Construction: Held for Revision]
AB-015	Allowable Temporary Interruptions to Disabled Access
[AB-016	Use of Panic Hardware in Lieu of Door Push-Side Clearance: Held for Revision]
AB-017	Exception to Requirements for Disabled Access to Vacant Spaces
AB-018	Local Equivalency for Approval of Emergency Escape or Rescue Windows at Courts and Lightwells
AB-019	Local Equivalency for Approval of Fire Escapes as a Required Means of Egress
AB-020	Local Equivalency for Exiting Through a Garage Area for Type V, Group R Buildings
AB-023	Crane Site Safety Plan – For the operation of tower cranes on high-rise building structures.
[AB-024	Over-the-Counter Permit: Held for Revision]
AB-025	Pre-application Requirement for State Industrial Safety Permit for Certain Trenching, Demolition, and Construction Activities
AB-026	Noise Insulation Enforcement Procedures
AB-027	Illegal Unit Re-occupancy Enforcement Procedure
AB-028	Pre-application and Pre-addendum Plan Review Procedures
[AB-029	Procedure for Approval of Homeless Shelters: Held for Revision]
AB-031	Identification of Revisions on Pages of Drawings
[AB-032	Site Permit Processing: Held for Revision]
AB-035	Procedure for Assigning Street Numbers (Addresses)
AB-036	Special Inspection for Demolition Work
[AB-037	Non-complying Exit Separation in Existing Group B, F-1, M, S-1 and S-2 Occupancies: Held for Revision]
AB-040	Referral of Design Professionals and Contractors to Regulatory Agencies
AB-042	Board of Examiners: Request for Variance, New Materials, or Alternate Methods of Construction
AB-043	Ventilation of Public Spaces in Group R Occupancies
AB-046	Special Inspection and Structural Observation Documentation Procedures
AB-047	Specific Submittal Criteria for Reports, Special Inspections and Final Acceptance Testing of Smoke Control Systems
AB-056	Disabled Access Compliance Status Documentation
AB-057	Local Equivalency for Approval of Roof Hatches in Lieu of Stairway Penthouses in Designated Buildings
AB-058	Procedures for Seismic Instrumentation of New Buildings
AB-060	Information Technology Rooms Defined and Requirements
AB-078	Criteria for Waiving Special Inspection Requirements for Signs, Awnings and Canopies
AB-082	Guidelines and Procedures for Structural Design Review
AB-083	Requirements and Guidelines for the Seismic Design of New Tall Buildings using Non-Prescriptive Seismic-Design Procedures
AB-084	Guidelines for the Structural Review of Continuous Tiedown Systems Used to Resist Overturning of Light-Framed Wood Shear Walls
AB-088	Collection and Storage of Trash, Recycling, and Compostable Materials
AB-090	Destination-Based Elevator Control System Requirements
[AB-093	Implementation of Green Building Regulations: Held for Revision]
AB-094	Definition and Design Criteria for Voluntary Seismic Upgrade of Soft-Story, Type V (wood-frame) Buildings
AB-098	Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements for Wood-Frame Residential Buildings with Three or More Dwelling Units
AB-099	Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements for Concrete Buildings
AB-100	Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements for One- and Two-Family Units
AB-105	Voluntary Sprinkler Protection for Existing High-Rise Buildings
AB-106	Procedures for Implementation of SFBC Chapter 34B 
AB-107	Application of Engineering Criteria in SFBC Chapter 34B 
AB-001  Preparing Administrative Bulletins
NO. AB-001	:DATE	:November 18, 1998 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:General Administrative ProceduresTITLE	:Preparing Administrative BulletinsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to describe the procedures to be used in originating, writing, editing and distributing Administrative Bulletins. Administrative Bulletins document the procedures to be followed by Department of Building Inspection (DBI) staff and other agencies which are involved with the regulatory functions of DBI. Although Administrative Bulletins are intended primarily for DBI use, the information may be of interest to the general public.
An Administrative Bulletin differs from an Office Policy and Procedure document in that the latter defines DBI’s internal operating procedures and is generally of interest only to DBI staff.REFERENCE	:2013 San Francisco Building Code, Section 104A2.1DISCUSSION	:The following steps are to be observed in the publishing of an Administrative Bulletin. Refer to the flowchart in ATTACHMENT A. Each Administrative Bulletin shall be reviewed at least annually for concurrence with the current code and from time-to-time as necessitated by changes in policies or requirements.
1.	IDENTIFY THE PROPOSED ADMINISTRATIVE BULLETIN
	a.	Any individual in the Department may identify the need for an Administrative Bulletin and report this need to the supervisor, who will in turn discuss it with the Manager of Permit Services (the Manager). The Manager then makes a recommendation to the Director who may give the authorization to proceed with the writing of the Administrative Bulletin. Similarly, any City agency may identify the need for an Administrative Bulletin directly to the Director.
	b.	The Manager will notify Technical Services Division (TSD) of the subject matter and the person assigned to write the Administrative Bulletin (the Preparer). TSD will assign the proposed Administrative Bulletin a number and notify the Preparer to proceed.
2.	REPORT THE PROPOSED ADMINISTRATIVE BULLETIN TO BUILDING INSPECTION COMMISSION (BIC)
	Prior to the preparation of the first draft of the Administrative Bulletin, TSD will prepare a brief synopsis of the proposed Administrative Bulletin and shall forward that to the DBI Director for inclusion in the Director’s Report or Communication Item to the Building Inspection Commission (BIC). 
3.	PREPARE THE DRAFT ADMINISTRATIVE BULLETIN
	Following such report to the BIC, the Preparer shall prepare the first draft. The first draft is to be returned to TSD within 21 days* after BIC review. Extensions of time may be granted by the Director under extenuating circumstances. Such first draft shall be reviewed by the Deputy Director and TSD for form and content, and revised as necessary. See ATTACHMENT B for the document format which is to be followed. 
4.	REVIEW THE DRAFT ADMINISTRATIVE BULLETIN
	a.	If so requested by the BIC, the first draft shall be provided to the BIC for public hearing prior to general distribution of the draft for review.
	b.	If no public hearing on the first draft is requested by the BIC, that first draft shall be distributed. The Preparer is to include a list of persons or committees to whom the draft is recommended to be sent for review. The Director and TSD may revise this list. (See ATTACHMENT C for a list of possible reviewers). 
	c.	TSD will distribute the first draft and, after a minimum 30 day* review period, will forward any comments received to the Manager. The Manager will review the first draft and the review comments, and if necessary, discuss them with the Preparer. The Manager may refer the draft Administrative Bulletin to any committee for review as seen advisable.
5.	PREPARE THE FINAL DRAFT FOR REVIEW BY THE MANAGER
	Based upon draft review comments a final draft bulletin will be prepared by the Preparer. TSD will prepare the final draft which will then be reviewed for form and content by the Manager.
6.	FORWARD THE ADMINISTRATIVE BULLETIN TO THE BIC FOR REVIEW AND PUBLIC HEARING
	Following review and recommendation by the Manager and Director, the draft Administrative Bulletin will be forwarded to the Building Inspection Commission for review, public hearing and approval.
7.	PREPARE THE APPROVED COPY FOR PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION
	a.	Following BIC approval, the Preparer will have 7 days* to return a final draft to TSD who will review the final draft for conformance to format and prepare a final copy for signature by the Director.
	b.	The signed Administrative Bulletin will be duplicated and distributed as noted on a final distribution list. TSD will file the signed Administrative Bulletin and will keep a record of the completed Administrative Bulletins in separate indexes by:
		1).	Administrative Bulletin Number
		2).	Title
*  The time limits given in the procedure above are guidelines, and may vary depending upon the complexity of the subject matter, review and approval process, and schedule requirements. Many Administrative Bulletins result in multiple “draft” stages. 
Original signed by:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director, Director			
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on November 18, 1998
Attachment A:  Administrative Bulletin Preparation, Review and Approval Process
Attachment B:  Example of Format
Attachment C:  Possible Reviewers
AB-004  Priority Permit Processing Guidelines
NO. AB-004	:DATE	:October 15, 2008 (Updated 01/01/2014 for code references) 
[Supersedes Administrative Bulletin AB-004 originally issued 10/6/06, updated 1/1/11 for code references]SUBJECT	:Permit Processing and IssuanceTITLE	:Priority Permit Processing GuidelinesPURPOSE	:This bulletin establishes guidelines to assure that permit applicants receive equal treatment and that permits are reviewed in the order received by the Department of Building Inspection except for certain designated priority applications.
It is the intent of the Department of Building Inspection that the permit review process proceed in an orderly, fair and efficient manner with sufficient flexibility to allow the reasonable resolution of problems that may occur on a day-to-day basis. This bulletin is issued in conjunction with similar bulletins from the Department of Public Works and the Planning Department.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code, Section 106A, Permits.
San Francisco Campaign and Government Conduct Code, Section 3.400 “Permit Application Processing”
Ethics Commission “Permit Processing Code of Conduct”
San Francisco Planning Department, Director’s Bulletin #2006-02
Department of Public Works, Director’s Order #175,487DISCUSSION	:This Administrative Bulletin provides guidelines for the implementation of legislation adopted by the Board of Supervisors to assist City permitting departments in assuring that no appearance of, or actual, preferential treatment is given to any permit applicant. Policy is adopted in accordance with the requirements of San Francisco Campaign and Government Conduct Code Section 3.400, effective December 15, 2004, and supplements the Permit Processing Code of Conduct adopted by the Ethics Commission on January 10, 2005.
These procedures relate to assignment, initial processing, review and issuance of permit applications; as well as to permit revisions, addenda, and corrections submitted to the Department of Building Inspection subsequent to initial permit application.
General Policy: In accordance with the City’s adopted “Permit Application Processing” regulations, the Department of Building Inspection has determined that there is a compelling public policy basis to provide priority review and issuance for each of the following designated types of permit applications.
Department of Building Inspection employees are encouraged to exercise reasonable judgment in all permit review and issuance activities in order to fulfill our customer service responsibilities. This exercise of reasonable judgment by employees is considered an important component in meeting the intent of the legislation to avoid preferential treatment. In all cases when questions arise regarding potential issues of preferential treatment, employees are required to consult with their supervisors.
PROCEDURES
Subject to the reasonable judgment of employees, permit applications shall be logged-in, separated into various permit types, assigned to staff for review, and reviewed in the order in which they are received, except for certain designated priority permits as detailed below. The Department of Building Inspection may assign as many different permit types as necessary to assure the efficient operation of that department. For example, the Department of Building Inspection may separate permits for one type of work, such as office tenant improvement construction, from other types of work, such as re-roofing or new building construction.
Case A addresses initial permit submittal, assignment, review and issuance. Following such initial priority action, permit applications may be placed on hold, routed to other divisions or other City agencies, issued, cancelled, or expired pursuant to other code requirements and other adopted policies and procedures.
Case B addresses issues related to priority processing of permit revisions and of other materials submitted after initial permit acceptance and review, as well as to issues related to final processing and issuance of permits.
Case A - Applications for Permits
Permit applications for the following types of work may, upon request of the permit applicant, be given priority assignment for plan review and issuance:
	1.	Permit applications for necessary emergency work to secure the health or safety of building users or the public, either on private property or on the public right-of-way;
	2.	Permit applications for work on City owned or City leased properties when such priority permit review is specified in a written agreement between the Department of Building Inspection and such other City agencies;
	3.	Permit applications for work consisting solely of disabled access improvements;
	4.	Permit applications for work consisting solely of solar photovoltaic systems;
	5.	Permit applications for work consisting solely of wind power generation systems;
	6.	Permit applications for work to voluntarily upgrade soft-story, wood-frame buildings to improve building performance in earthquakes;
	7.	Permit applications principally for maintenance or preservation of designated historic buildings and/or sites;
	8.	Permit applications for building construction projects that meet or exceed a Gold Rating (very high efficiency “green building” projects) using the LEED Building Rating System® adopted under the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design program of the U.S. Green Building Council or other approved “green building” guidelines. Compliance with green building standards is to be assured through conformance with “Performance Assurance for Green Buildings” requirements noted below;
	9.	Permit applications for projects that provide new affordable housing (meeting the affordability levels defined in Planning Code Section 315 and in the Procedures Manual adopted by the Mayor’s Office of Housing) in 100% of the on-site dwelling units. Conformance with these standards shall be confirmed by Planning Department staff; 
	10.	Permit applications to respond to a delay caused by an earlier procedural error by a City agency in processing the permit or processing another permit for the same project;
	11.	Permit applications submitted to comply with Notices of Violation, abatement notices, or any other official Department of Public Works, Planning Department or Department of Building Inspection enforcement or abatement notices which require immediate action; or 
	12.	Permit applications for other work for which, in the reasonable judgment of the Director of the Department of Building Inspection, urgent or extraordinary circumstances exist that would lead to a significant public benefit or necessity, when such circumstances are documented in written findings.
Case B - Revisions and Addenda to Permits
Subject to the reasonable judgment of staff, revisions and other materials submitted to the Department of Building Inspection during the permit review process must be reviewed in the order in which they are received, except as detailed below. Such submittals may include revisions, corrections, addenda, and other permit materials. Exceptions to the strict chronological review and processing sequence are allowed and permit submittal documents may be given priority review, upon request of the permit applicant, when any of the following conditions is met:
	1.	Permits meet the priority permit qualifications of Case A, above; 
	2.	Permit revisions are submitted pursuant to a decision of the Building Inspection Commission, Board of Appeals, Board of Supervisors, or other review or appeals body where such body has directed that the permit revisions be given priority review, or where required revisions are minor in nature and would not require substantial time to review and process;
	3.	Revisions, corrections or other submittals are minor in nature and would not require substantial time to review and process; 
	4.	Revisions, addenda and other permit submittals for work in which, in the reasonable judgment of the Director of the Department of Building Inspection, urgent or extraordinary circumstances exist that would lead to a significant public benefit or necessity, when such circumstances are documented in written findings.
Documentation of Priority Processing
Priority processing for permits meeting the above criteria is to be undertaken at the request of the permit applicant. All cases of priority permit application processing shall be documented using a standard form, Documentation of Findings for Priority Permit Processing (Attachment A), that includes written findings of conformity with one of the priority types described in this bulletin. This document shall be prepared and submitted by the applicant. Department of Building Inspection, Division managers may approve the form where the permit is in clear conformity with the standards for priority processing. All other requests for priority permit processing should be reviewed and approved by a Deputy Director or other senior manager.
One copy of the form approving priority permit processing shall remain with the application, one copy shall be microfilmed or otherwise retained as part of the approved permit documents, and the original shall be retained in a chronological file in the office of the Deputy Director for Permit Services or in another designated location and shall be available for review by any person at any time during normal Department working hours. Permit applications that are approved for priority processing should be so noted in the Department of Building Inspection’s permit tracking system.
Performance Assurance for Green Buildings
Where priority processing for a permit application is requested for building construction projects that meet or exceed a LEED Building Rating System® Gold rating or other approved “green building” program, such permit applications must be accompanied by an agreement in a form prepared and executed by the Department of the Environment. The agreement shall be accompanied by the LEED® or other approved checklist that specifies the elements of the project required to obtain the required rating. As part of the application process, the applicant shall meet with a designated SF Green Team, comprising technical staff from the affected reviewing agencies, to confirm that the project complies with all requirements. Plan review fees per San Francisco Building Code Section 110A, Table 1A-B will be charged on an hourly basis for all SF Green Team staff time related to an individual project.
The applicant’s obligations under this agreement shall be memorialized as Conditions of Permit Approval, which shall become part of the approved permit documents and shall be recorded with the County Recorder’s Office in a form approved by the Director. Conditions of permit approval shall require that the project’s site permit application or other permit application(s) be accompanies by a Design Phase Certification from the U.S. Green Building Council, and that a final LEED® Gold Rating Certification be obtained within six months of issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy, Certificate of Final Completion, or permit sign-off. The Director may approve alternate documentation and compliance programs to confirm that all required work is properly completed.
Quality Assurance Procedures
The assignment of permit applications for priority review and these procedures shall be reviewed by the Department of Building Inspection on an annual basis to confirm that the intent of this policy is being fulfilled and to make changes as necessary to optimize the efficient and fair operation of the permit process.
Signed by:
Vivian L. Day, C.B.O.			
Acting Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by Building Inspection Commission October 15, 2008
Attachment A:	Documentation of Priority Permit Processing
Attachment B:	SF Campaign and Government Conduct Code, Section 3.400
Attachment C:	Permit Processing Code of Conduct
Attachment D:	Planning Director Bulletin No. 2
Attachment E:	DPW Director’s Order #175,487
AB-005  Procedures for Approval of Local Equivalencies
NO. AB-005	:DATE	:September 18, 2002 (Updated 01/01/2014 for code references)SUBJECT	:Plan Review and Permit ProcessTITLE	:Procedures for Approval of Local EquivalenciesPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to detail the procedures to be used for the application and case-by-case review of requests for approval of equivalencies, when work is proposed which does not strictly comply with the provisions of the 2013 San Francisco Building, Electrical, Mechanical, or Plumbing Codes. Requests for approval of modifications or alternates will be considered by the Department of Building Inspection and, when applicable, the Fire Department on a case-by-case basis when reasonable equivalency is proposed.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code - Section 104A, Organization and Enforcement
- Section 104A.2.7, Modifications
- Section 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, design and methods of construction
DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-042, Board of Examiners: Request for Variance, New Materials, or Alternate Methods of Construction
DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-028, Pre-application and Pre- Addendum Plan Review ProceduresDISCUSSION	:Project sponsors may request the application of standard local equivalencies, as detailed in various Administrative Bulletins, or approval of other alternates when it can be demonstrated on a case-by-case basis that there are practical difficulties in meeting the specific provisions of the codes, that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of the codes, and that reasonable equivalency is provided in fire-protection and structural integrity.
Project sponsors may request the application of standard local equivalencies, as detailed in various Administrative Bulletins, or approval of other alternates when it can be demonstrated on a case-by-case basis that there are practical difficulties in meeting the specific provisions of the codes, that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of the codes, and that reasonable equivalency is provided in fire-protection and structural integrity.
Proposed modifications may be administratively approved by the Departments if they conform to the standard provisions of Local Equivalency. Other modifications and applications for use of alternate materials, designs and methods of construction may be administratively approved or may be referred to the Board of Examiners or other review body as appropriate.
Based upon individual building and property conditions, the Department of Building Inspection and other City departments, such as the Fire Department, may impose requirements in addition to those proposed by the project sponsor when approving any request for use of a standard Local Modification, code modification or alternate material, design or method of construction. Additionally, the Department of Building Inspection or any other City agency may require that additional substantiation be provided supporting any claims made for such proposals. 
Procedure for Application for Local Equivalencies
Project sponsors wishing to apply for local equivalencies must fill out and submit the Request for Approval of Local Equivalency form (Attachment A). Fees are required to be paid as noted on that form.
Review Procedures for Application for Local Equivalencies
The Department of Building Inspection and the Fire Department, when applicable, will conduct review meetings as required to consider requests for the approval of Local Equivalencies, Modifications and Alternates. At such review meetings each request will be either approved, approved with conditions, disapproved, referred to another official body, or placed on “Hold” pending submittal of additional information. Upon approval of the local equivalency, a copy of the signed form approving the equivalency and indicating any conditions of approval will be attached to the submittal documents as part of the permanent record of the project, and a copy will be sent to the project sponsor. 
Please note that the Board of Examiners reviews requests for variances and requests for approval of certain new materials, methods, and types of construction. The Board of Examiners considers requests concerning structural provisions related to unreinforced masonry buildings. The Access Appeals Commission considers requests for equivalencies for issues related to disabled access.
Appeals
Determinations of the staff of the Department of Building Inspection regarding local equivalencies may be administratively brought for further review to the Deputy Director and the Director of the Department of Building Inspection. Determinations of the Director may be appealed to the Building Inspection Commission or other designated appeal body.
Originally signed by:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director
October 3, 2002
Gary Massetani, Fire Marshal
October 9, 2002
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002
Attachment A: Request for Approval of Local Equivalency
AB-009  Local Equivalency for Approval of New Openings in New and Existing Building Property Line Walls
NO. AB-009	:DATE	:September 18, 2002 (Updated 01/01/2014 for code references)SUBJECT	:Fire and Life SafetyTITLE	:Local Equivalency for Approval of New Openings in New and Existing Building Property Line WallsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to provide standards and procedures for the application and case-by-case review of requests for a modification based on local equivalency to allow openings in exterior walls closer to property lines than are permitted by the 2013 San Francisco Building Code (SFBC).
This bulletin permits the continuing application of code provisions of former editions of the SFBC regarding property line openings. In conformance with current State law, requests for approval of openings closer to the property line than permitted under the SFBC will be considered on a case-by-case basis when reasonable equivalency is proposed.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 104A.2.7, Modification
- Section 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, alternate design and methods of construction 
- Section 705.8, Openings
DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local Equivalencies. 
San Francisco Administrative Code Article 5, Section 23.47, Lot Line Window DISCUSSION	:Project sponsors may request the application of this local equivalency allowing openings in building walls closer to property lines than allowed by SFBC Section 705.8 when it can be demonstrated on a case-by-case basis that there are practical difficulties in meeting the provisions of the code, that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of the code, and that reasonable equivalency is provided in fire protection and structural integrity.
Such proposed modification may conform with the below listed standard provisions. The Department of Building Inspection (DBI) and other City departments may impose additional requirements in the approval of any request for a code modification or alternate based upon individual building and property conditions. Other City agencies that may review such requests include the San Francisco Fire Department, the Planning Department and, for buildings adjoining City-owned property, the Department of Real Estate.
If a project sponsor wishes to propose methods of opening protection different than those listed below, proposals for the use of alternate materials, designs, or methods of construction may be submitted for review in the same manner as for this local equivalency. The Department of Building Inspection may require that additional substantiation be provided supporting any claims made for such proposals. 
Procedure for Application of Local Equivalencies
Project sponsors wishing to apply local equivalencies must fill out and submit the Request for Approval of Local Equivalency form (Attachment A). Fees to be paid and scheduling of review of requests are as noted on that form. Following DBI review, each request will either be approved, approved with conditions, disapproved, or placed on Hold pending submittal of additional information.
Further details of procedures for the review of local equivalencies may be found in AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local Equivalencies.
Conditions of Local Equivalencies
Openings in new building walls and new openings in existing building walls in Groups B, M, and R occupancies that are closer to property lines than permitted under SFBC Section 705.8 and Table 705.8 may be permitted on a case-by-case basis when the following provisions or approved equivalent provisions are met and the project sponsor provides documentation of the practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of the regular code.
The standard provisions for this Local Equivalency include all of the following:
1.	The openings may not be used to provide required light and ventilation, required egress, or for required emergency rescue.
2.	The openings shall be fixed (non-operable) unless more than 50 feet above the roof of any adjoining building or more than the distance prescribed for protected openings in Table 705.8 in any direction from an adjoining building.
3.	The openings shall be located entirely above any adjoining roof or at least six feet laterally beyond any wall of an adjoining building.
4.	The openings shall be protected with fire assemblies, such as fire shutters or rated window assemblies, having a rating of at least 3/4 hour. Openings in walls which have a fire- protection rating of greater than 1-hour shall be protected by a fire assembly having a three-hour fire-protection rating in four-hour fire-resistive walls, a two-house fire-protection rating in three- hour fire-resistive walls, and one-and one-half hour fire-protection rating in two-hour fire- resistive walls. Fire shutters, if provided, shall be actuated by smoke detectors located inside and by fusible links or other approved devices on the outside of the protected openings.
5.	The opening shall be protected by a fire sprinkler system having ordinary temperature, quick-response type heads installed within 18" of the openings and spaced at 6 feet on center or at the manufacturer’s recommended minimum spacing, whichever provides the closer spacing. 
	Exception: Openings in Group R Division 3 occupancies.
6.	If the adjoining building contains R occupancy uses, proposed openings shall not be located closer than six feet measured in any direction to any existing opening on the adjoining building unless the adjoining owner gives written consent. A copy of the statement giving such consent shall be attached to the permit application. 
7.	The owner of a building with such openings shall provide a recorded statement that these openings will be closed or protected with approved fire resistive wall construction in the event that the adjoining property is improved in such a manner that the openings no longer comply with the provisions of this Administrative Bulletin. A copy of a Declaration of Use Limitation (Attachment B) shall be submitted to the plan reviewer prior to completion of Department of Building inspection plan review.
8.	Property line openings which open onto property owned by the City and County of San Francisco shall meet the requirements of San Francisco Administrative Code, Article VI, Sections 23.27 through 23.30 (Attachment C). An approved and executed a “Lot Line Window Agreement” shall be submitted as part of the documents required under Item 9 (below).
9.	A permit application and related submittal documents shall detail all construction which is approved as a result of this request for local equivalency.
Originally signed by:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director
October 3, 2002
Gary Massetani, Fire Marshal
October 9, 2002
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002
Attachment A: Request for Approval of Local Equivalency
Attachment B: Assessor/Recorder’s Office Document - “Declaration of Use Limitation”
Attachment C: SF Administrative Code 
AB-010  Local Equivalency for Approval of Communicating Openings Between Buildings on Separate Properties
NO. AB-010	:DATE	:September 18, 2002 (Updated 01/01/14 for code reference)SUBJECT	:Fire and Life SafetyTITLE	:Local Equivalency for Approval of Communicating Openings Between Buildings on Separate PropertiesPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to provide standards and procedures for the application and case-by-case review of requests for a modification based on local equivalency to allow communicating openings between buildings where such openings do not comply with the strict provisions of the 2013 San Francisco Building Code (SFBC) regarding fire resistance of exterior walls and protection of openings at property lines.
This bulletin permits the continuing application of code provisions of former editions of the SFBC regarding communicating openings. In conformance with current State law, requests for approval of communicating openings will be considered on a case-by-case basis when reasonable equivalency is proposed.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code (SFBC)
- Section 104A.2.7, Modifications 
- Section 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, alternate design and methods of construction
- Section 705.8, Openings
DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local EquivalenciesDISCUSSION	:Project sponsors may request the application of this local equivalency allowing openings in building walls which connect buildings on separate lots when such openings in exterior walls do not meet the strict provisions of SFBC Section 705 and when it can be demonstrated on a case-by-case basis that there are practical difficulties in meeting the provisions of the code, that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of the code, and that reasonable equivalency is provided in fire-protection and structural integrity.
Such proposed modification may be approved by the Department of Building Inspection and the Fire Department if it conforms with the below listed standard provisions. The Department of Building Inspection and other City departments may impose additional requirements, in addition to those listed below, in the approval of any request for a code modification or alternate based upon individual building and property conditions.
If a project sponsor wishes to propose methods of protection of communicating openings which differ from those listed below, proposals for the use of alternate materials, designs, or methods of construction may be submitted for review in the same manner as for this Local Equivalency. The Department of Building Inspection may require that additional substantiation be provided supporting any claims made for such proposals. 
Procedures for Application of Local Equivalencies
Project sponsors wishing to apply Local Equivalencies must fill out and submit the Request for Approval of Local Equivalencies form (Attachment A). Fees to be paid and scheduling of review of requests are as noted on that form. Following Department of Building Inspection review and, when appropriate, San Francisco Fire Department review, each request will either be approved, approved with conditions, disapproved, or placed on “Hold” pending submittal of additional information.
Determinations of the staff of the Department of Building Inspection regarding local equivalencies may be administratively brought for further review to the Deputy Director and the Director of the Department of Building Inspection. Determinations of the Director may be appealed to the Building Inspection Commission or to other designated appeals bodies.
Further details of procedures for the review of local equivalencies may be found in AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local Equivalencies.
Conditions of Local Equivalency
Communicating openings between new or existing buildings located on real or assumed property lines where such openings are closer to property lines than permitted under SFBC Section 602.1 and Tables 601 and 602 may be permitted on a case-by-case basis when the following provisions or other approved equivalent provisions are met and the project sponsor provides documentation of the practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of the regular code.
The standard provisions for this local equivalency include:
1.	The total width of all communicating openings in a building wall shall not exceed 25 percent of the length of the wall at the floor where the openings occur. A single opening shall not exceed 120 square feet. Multiple openings are permitted. 
2.	Communicating openings in each building shall be protected by approved and listed automatic-closing fire assemblies having fire protection ratings of at least that required for the exterior wall of the building per Tables 601 and 602, or for any occupancy separation required between adjoining occupancies in the separate buildings as prescribed in Table 508.4, whichever results in a greater fire-resistive rating. In no case shall the opening protection be less than one- hour. Such fire assemblies shall close in the event of heat or smoke detected on either side of the communicating opening and shall cause a local fire alarm to sound upon closing.
3.	All vertical shafts and stairways in each building having communicating openings shall be enclosed on the floor or floors where such communicating openings occur, and on the floors immediately above and below where such communicating openings occur. Enclosures shall be in accordance with Table 601 and openings into such shaft and stairway enclosures shall comply with SFBC Sections 708 and 1022.
4.	The total combined floor area for floor connected by communicating openings shall the basis for determination of fire sprinkler requirements in accordance with SFBC Section 903.2.
5.	A communicating opening shall not adversely affect the lateral force resisting capability of either building and shall not cause the transfer of lateral forces between buildings. Calculations and details substantiating this shall be provided.
6.	Fire protection assemblies in communicating openings shall be designed, insofar as practical, to resist blockage and jamming in the case of seismic events.
7.	Communicating openings shall not be used as required exits.
8.	Sprinklers for exposure protection of the openings shall be installed within 18 inches of the openings in each building. The heads shall be of ordinary temperature, quick-response type and be spaced at six feet on center or at the manufacturer’s recommended minimum spacing, whichever provides the closer spacing. 
9.	The owner of each building having a communicating opening shall provide a recorded statement that such opening(s) will be closed or protected with approved fire-resistive wall construction in the event that either building is altered in such a manner that the communicating openings no longer comply with the provisions of this Administrative Bulletin. A copy of a Declaration of Use Limitation (Attachment B) shall be submitted to the plan reviewer prior to completion of Department of Building inspection plan review.
A permit application and related submittal documents shall detail all construction which is approved as a result of this request for local equivalency. No work to create a communicating opening between buildings shall be done prior to approval of such permit application and issuance of a permit.
Originally signed by:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director
October 3, 2002
Gary Massetani, Fire Marshal
October 9, 2002
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002
Attachment A: Request for Approval of Local Equivalency
Attachment B: Assessor/Recorder’s Office Document - “Declaration of Use Limitation”
AB-013  Application of Disabled Access Provisions to Historic Buildings
NO. AB-013	:DATE	:September 18, 2002  [Updated 01/01/14 for code references.]SUBJECT	:Disabled AccessTITLE	:Application of Disabled Access Provisions to Historic BuildingsPURPOSE	:To establish policies and procedures for the application of the alternate provisions of the State Historical Building Code and to define appeal procedures from administrative decisions.REFERENCES	:State Historical Building Code, 2013 Edition, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 8
San Francisco Building Code, 2013 Edition
DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-028, Pre-application and Pre- addendum Plan Review ProceduresDISCUSSION	:The intent of this bulletin is to establish procedures for qualified historic buildings and properties that allow project sponsors to request alternatives to the regular disabled access regulations through the application of the provisions of the State Historical Building Code. 
Materials related to the application of alternative provisions must be provided by the project sponsor to the Department of Building Inspection for review of each specific request to apply the State Historical Building Code. Included must be complete documentation citing the appropriate code sections and providing the following information:  
•	Documentation that the building or property is a qualified historical building or property within the terms and definitions of the State Historical Building Code. Such qualification is to be in accordance with the policies and procedures developed by the Department of Building Inspection and the Planning Department. 
•	Information indicating how strict compliance with the disabled access provisions of the San Francisco Building Code would threaten or destroy the historic significance or character defining features of the building or property. Each specific item for which an exception is requested must be specifically identified and justified.
•	A clear statement of each of the alternative(s) to be applied from the list of the State Historical Building Code, Sections 8-602 and 8-603. Note that the alternative provisions listed in the State Historical Building Code are not a comprehensive listing of all possible alternatives. The appellant may identify other reasonably equivalent alternatives to the regular code which would result in access to and use by persons with disabilities.
•	Plans, photographs and other visual documentation for inclusion into the file so that the conditions are clearly understandable by reviewers.
The prevailing San Francisco Building Code provisions for disabled access apply to all buildings regardless of historical status unless it can be demonstrated on a case-by-case basis that compliance with the prevailing code would threaten or destroy the historical significance or character defining features of a building or property.
Procedure for Review
	1a.	The building permit application and accompanying documentation proposing listed Alternate Provisions or equivalent facilitation shall be routed to the plan checker who would normally review the plans to determine if standard administrative approval of an unreasonable hardship request can be granted.
	1b.	Alternatively, a pre-application plan review meeting may be requested prior to permit submittal by the project sponsor to determine the applicability of Alternate Provisions or equivalent facilitation under the State Historical Building Code.
	2.	If standard administrative approval cannot be granted, the request for approval of the proposed Alternate Provisions or equivalent facilitation, along with accompanying supporting documentation, should be sent to the appropriate Plan Check Division Manager for review. 
		For those items which are not specifically listed as Alternate Provisions under Sections 8-602 and 8-603, documentation to be provided by the project sponsor to the Department of Building Inspection, Plan Check Services shall contain written documentation including the opinions and comments of representative local groups of persons with disabilities, persons knowledgeable about historic preservation, and other qualified individuals regarding the issue in question. Alternatively, or to supplement such comments, the Department of Building Inspection may hold its own public review with other representative persons with disabilities, in addition to other qualified persons, should it choose to do so. Any person who meets the ADA definition of “disabled” may be represented for these purposes.
		[Note: Under the ADA, an individual with a disability is a person who has a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more of the person’s major life activities; has a record of such an impairment; or is regarded as having such an impairment.]
		Based on the information submitted, as well as other information available to the Department of Building Inspection from the Planning Department and other resources, an administrative decision will be issued by DBI approving or denying the request, or a request for additional information will be made within a reasonable period of time.
	3.	A disagreement with the decision of Department of Building Inspection staff may, on request, be reviewed through the supervisory chain, to the Director of the Department of Building Inspection. A project sponsor wishing to appeal the administrative decision of the Department of Building Inspection staff and Director may appeal to the Access Appeals Commission (AAC).
	4.	The appellant may appeal the decision of the AAC to the State Historical Building Safety Board. The subject of the appeal must first be determined by the State Historical Building Safety Board to be of statewide significance. This final administrative appeal is available to confirm that the local agency has rendered a decision which is consistent with statewide interpretations of the disabled access codes and the State Historical Building Code.
Originally Signed By:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director
October 3, 2002
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002
AB-015  Allowable Temporary Interruptions to Disabled Access
NO. AB-015	:DATE	:September 16, 1998 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Disabled AccessTITLE	:Allowable Temporary Interruptions to Disabled AccessPURPOSE	:The purpose of this bulletin is to establish guidelines for approval of conditions which might pose temporary interruptions in disabled access to certain areas in new or existing buildings. This bulletin further defines required maintenance of disabled access features.REFERENCE	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 1.9, Application of Access Compliance Regulations
- Section 11B, 108, #2, Maintenance of Accessible Features
- Section 1.1.7, Order of Precedence of Codes
- Section 3401.2, Maintenance of Existing Buildings and DevicesDISCUSSION	:It is the intent of this bulletin to identify specific conditions which might permit temporary, isolated interruptions in disabled access due to maintenance and repair and in testing or emergency conditions. Such permissible interruptions in access do not supersede requirements for the installation and maintenance in good working order of features and devices necessary to provide access to persons with disabilities. 
Certain construction and features which typically comply with all access requirements may result in decreased access when testing or emergency conditions arise or when normal or unanticipated maintenance is required. Typical of these conditions is fire doors which are on magnetic, smoke- detector-actuated hold- opens which close upon testing of fire alarm systems or the operation of emergency systems. It is the intent of this bulletin to permit the use of devices which provide normal accessible features without requiring full access under emergency conditions. 
Where the following specific conditions are met, the Department of Building Inspection will allow routine approval of normally accessible features with the understanding that in times of emergency or isolated temporary interruption such features may not provide full compliance with all access regulations. 
Specific allowable temporary interruptions in access include but are not limited to the following features and conditions, which may be incorporated into the design of buildings and facilities:
1.	Elevator lobby smoke doors and corridor, lobby, and other doors on permanently- installed “hold-open” devices when, during activation due to testing, service, or emergency, such doors do not provide full strike-side clearances. 
2.	During the normal maintenance or repair of accessible features as required by the San Francisco Building and Housing Codes. If access is to be interrupted for an extended period of time, the length of interruption shall be posted and, where possible, alternative means of access shall be provided.
The Department of Building Inspection may administratively grant unreasonable hardship requests for permanent construction that might limit access to persons with disabilities during such periods as described. Project applicant should submit the necessary Unreasonable Hardship Form and indicate the specific nature of the request for review by the Department of Building Inspection. 
Originally Signed By:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director
November 12, 1998
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 16, 1998
AB-017  Exception to Requirements for Disabled Access to Vacant Spaces
NO. AB-017	:DATE	:September 16, 1998 (01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Disabled AccessTITLE	:Exception to Requirements for Disabled Access to Vacant SpacesPURPOSE	:The purpose of this bulletin is to establish guidelines for provision of accessibility to vacant and to subsequently occupied or re-occupied spaces or buildings.REFERENCE	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 1.9, Application of Access Compliance Regulations
- Section 103A, Occupancy ViolationsDISCUSSION	:The Department of Building Inspection through this bulletin intends to assure the compliance with requirements for accessibility to spaces used and occupied by persons with disabilities and other persons, while affirming that buildings or portions of buildings which are not occupied for any use or purpose do not require access. This bulletin further addresses issues of accessibility upon re-occupancy of buildings where existing violations have been cited by DBI, and confirms that access requirements must be met before either temporary or permanent occupancy.
In order to avoid the costly provision of disabled access features for spaces where tenant improvements have not yet been fully incorporated for future use, or where the temporary solution to disabled access complaints may be to vacate a non-complying space, the Department of Building Inspection acknowledges that there are no requirements to provide disabled access to such vacant space. When vacant spaces become occupied or re-occupied, all disabled access features must be provided as required under the San Francisco Building Code. New buildings, particularly those core-and-shell buildings where tenant spaces have not yet been occupied, may be granted exceptions from some specific interior access requirements but must meet all basic site access requirements so that construction does not preclude subsequent access compliance. Buildings actively under construction or renovation which are not occupied for other purposes also need not be provided with disabled access features.
Where a vacant building or space is subject to a complaint or abatement action for failure to provide required disabled access features, such access features need not be provided until such space is reoccupied. Prior to such reoccupancy a permit will be required to correct accessibility violations, even if no other tenant improvement or other construction work is contemplated. It is the responsibility of the owner to provide no less than quarterly updates to the Department of Building Inspection regarding the status of vacant buildings upon which complaints are outstanding. Such reports shall be provided to the Disabled Access Division of the Department of Building Inspection and signed by the owner or their representative.
Note that the San Francisco Building Code specifically requires access to temporary and emergency buildings and facilities. Any use of otherwise vacant spaces, such as temporary office space or other special use, requires compliance with disabled access regulations per San Francisco Building Code Section 1.9. Temporary uses may be provided with temporary disabled access features with the approval the Department of Building Inspection (i.e., temporary accessible toilet facilities).
Originally Signed By:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director
November 12, 1998
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 16, 1998
AB-018  Local Equivalency for Approval of Emergency Escape or Rescue Windows at Courts and Light Wells
NO. AB-018	:DATE	:September 18, 2002 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Fire and Life SafetyTITLE	:Local Equivalency for Approval of Emergency Escape or Rescue Windows at Courts and Light WellsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to provide standards and procedures for the application and case-by-case review of requests for a local equivalency to allow exiting from emergency escape or rescue windows into enclosed courts or Light wells where such means of escape or rescue do not strictly comply with the provisions of the 2010 San Francisco Building Code (SFBC) regarding emergency escape or rescue windows.
This bulletin permits the continuing application of code provisions of former editions of the SFBC regarding emergency escape or rescue windows. In conformance with current State law, requests for approval of emergency escape or rescue windows opening into courts or Light wells will be considered on a case-by-case basis when reasonably equivalency is proposed.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 104A.2.7, Modifications.
- Section 104A.2.8, Alternate Materials, design and methods of construction.
- Section 1029, Access and Means of Egress Facilities and Emergency Escapes.
DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local Equivalencies
DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-019, Local Equivalency for Approval of Fire Escapes as a Required Means of EgressDISCUSSION	:Project sponsors may request the application of this local equivalency allowing emergency escape or rescue windows to open into a court or lightwell without strict compliance with the provisions of SFBC Section 1029 when it can be demonstrated on a case-by-case basis that there are practical difficulties in meeting the provisions of the SFBC, that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of the SFBC, and that reasonable equivalency is provided in fire-protection and structural integrity.
Such proposed modification may be approved by the Department if it conforms with the below- listed standard provisions. The Department of Building Inspection and other City departments may impose additional requirements, in addition to those listed below, in the approval of any request for a code modification or alternate based upon individual building and property conditions. The San Francisco Fire Department may also review such case-by-case requests.
If a project sponsor wishes to propose emergency escape or rescue windows opening into courts or Light wells which differ from those listed below, proposals for the use of alternate materials, designs, or methods of construction may be submitted for review in the same manner as for this Local Equivalency. The Department of Building Inspection may require that additional substantiation be provided supporting any claims made for such proposals. 
Procedure for Application of Local Equivalencies
Project sponsors wishing to apply local equivalencies must fill out and submit the Request for Approval of Local Equivalency form (Attachment A). Fees to be paid and scheduling of review of requests are as noted on that form. Following DBI review, each request will either be approved, approved with conditions, disapproved, or placed on “Hold” pending submittal of additional information. 
Further details of procedures for the review of local equivalencies and appeal of departmental determinations may be found in Administrative Bulletin AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local Equivalencies.
Conditions of Local Equivalency
Emergency escape or rescue windows opening into courts or Light wells  without direct access to a yard or public way may be permitted on a case-by-case basis when the following provisions or approved equivalent provisions are met and the project sponsor provides documentation of the practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of the regular code.
The standard provisions for this local equivalency include:
1.	The building in which the emergency escape or rescue windows are proposed shall not exceed four (4) stories in height.
2.	Emergency escape or rescue windows shall have access to a stairway, a fire escape or a permanently affixed balcony and ladder leading to a roof having a slope of not more than 4:12. Fire escape, balcony and ladder construction shall comply with Administrative Bulletin AB-019, Local Equivalency for Approval of Fire Escapes as a Required Means of Egress. Such stairway, fire escape or balcony and ladder shall have at least 50% net open area to allow the penetration of required light and ventilation.
3.	A level path of travel shall be provided on the roof to a stairway enclosure or to another approved exit. Such path of travel shall be not less than three (3) feet in width. 
4.	Roofs used as part of the path of travel shall be at least one hour fire-rated.
5.	The building shall be fire sprinklered per applicable standards.
6.	A permit application and related submittal documents shall detail all construction which is approved as a result of this request for local equivalency. 
Originally Signed By:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director
October 3, 2002
Gary Massetani, Fire Mashal
October 9, 2002
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002
Attachment A:  Request for Approval of Local Equivalency
AB-019  Local Equivalency for Approval of Fire Escapes as a Required Means of Egress
NO. AB-019	:DATE	:September 18, 2002 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references.)SUBJECT	:Fire and Life SafetyTITLE	:Local Equivalency for Approval of Fire Escapes as a Required Means of EgressPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to provide standards and procedures for the application and case-by-case review of requests for a modification based on a local equivalency to allow fire escapes to serve as required means of egress where such means of egress do not strictly comply with the provisions of Section 1011 the 2013 San Francisco Building Code (SFBC).
This bulletin permits the continuing application of code provisions of former editions of the SFBC allowing fire escapes to be used as required means of egress. In conformance with current State law, requests for approval of such fire escapes will be considered on a case-by-case basis when reasonably equivalency is proposed.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 104A.2.7, Modifications
- Section 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, alternate design and methods of construction
- Chapter 10, Means of Egress
- 2013 California Building Code, Section 3406, Fire Escapes
DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local EquivalenciesDISCUSSION	:Project sponsors may request the application of this local equivalency allowing fire escapes when such means of egress do not meet the specific provisions of SFBC Chapter 10, Means of Egress, when it can be demonstrated on a case-by-case basis that there are practical difficulties in meeting the provisions of the SFBC, that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of the SFBC, and that reasonable equivalency is provided in fire-protection and structural integrity.
Such proposed modification may be approved by the Department of Building Inspection and the Fire Department if it conforms with the below listed standard provisions. The Department of Building Inspection (DBI) and other City departments may impose additional requirements, in addition to those listed below, in the approval of any request for a code modification or alternate based upon individual building and property conditions. The Planning Department and other agencies may also review such case-by-case requests.
If a project sponsor wishes to propose fire escapes or other means of egress that differ from those listed below, proposals for the use of alternate materials, designs, or methods of construction may be submitted for review in the same manner as for this Local Equivalency. The Department of Building Inspection may require that additional substantiation be provided supporting any claims made for such proposals.
Procedure for Application of Local Equivalencies
Project sponsors wishing to apply local equivalencies must fill out and submit the Request for Approval of Local Equivalency form (Attachment A). Fees to be paid and scheduling of review of requests are as noted on that form. Following DBI review, each request will either be approved, approved with conditions, disapproved, or placed on “Hold” pending submittal of additional information. 
Further details of procedures for the review of local equivalencies and appeal of departmental determinations may be found in Administrative Bulletin AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local Equivalencies.
Conditions of Local Equivalency 
Fire escapes as means of required egress may be permitted on a case-by-case basis when the following provisions or approved equivalent provisions are met and the permit applicant provides documentation of the practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of the regular code.
For the local equivalency of fire escapes, code requirements for stairways may be met by fire escapes conforming to the requirements detailed below. This local equivalency shall not apply to new buildings which are under the jurisdiction of the San Francisco Fire Department.
The standard provisions for this local equivalency include:
1.0.	A fire escape may be installed to serve as one of the required means of egress for existing buildings of Groups B, F-1, M, R-1, R-2. R-3, S-1, and S-2 Occupancies when all of the following conditions are met:
1.1.	The building may not exceed four stories in height; and
1.2	The building has only one street frontage, and such street front is not more than 37 1/2 feet in width. A Group R building may have a second frontage, provided neither frontage exceeds 37 1/2 feet in width; and
1.3	The total occupant load above the first floor does not exceed 50. Occupant load calculations shall be provided with submittal documents.
2.0.	Newly installed fire escapes for existing buildings shall conform to the following requirements:
2.1	General. All fire escapes shall have an access to the roof, an inclined ladder connecting all balconies, and an approved means of access to the ground.
2.2	Design. For design loads for fire escapes, see San Francisco Building Code, Tables 1607.1, Uniform and Concentrated Loads, and 1607.8.1, Special Loads. 
2.2.1	Each fire escape balcony shall be supported independently and shall be designed to carry all dead and live loads of the balcony, ladders or stairs supported by it.
2.2.2	In wood or light steel framed buildings, adequate provisions shall be made for carrying the load to the building frame. Bolting to blocking between studs or joists is not permitted.
2.3	Construction. Fire escapes shall be constructed entirely of hot-dipped galvanized steel or reinforced concrete. All welding, drilling, punching and riveting of the assemblies shall be done before galvanizing.
2.3.1	Screws and lag screws shall not be used in construction and erection of fire escapes.
2.3.2	Unless otherwise approved, slotted holes are allowed only for connecting balcony handrails to buildings. Length of slotted holes shall not exceed 2.5 times the bolt diameter.
2.4	Openings. In buildings with fire-resistive exterior walls, where fire escapes are permitted, access openings to such fire escapes shall be protected by an approved self-closing 3/4-hour fire- resistive assembly.
2.5	Access to fire escapes. 
2.5.1	Access shall be from a public hallway or corridor except for R-3 occupancies where access to a fire escape may be from a room. 
2.5.2	The opening to the fire escape shall be of a size as to permit the installation of a door not less than 3 feet in width and not less than 6 feet 8 inches in height; the door shall be equipped with panic hardware and open outward.
	EXCEPTION: In buildings housing Group R Occupancies, where access to the fire escape balcony is from a single apartment or room, access may be provided by a window which, when open, provides clear dimensions of not less than 29 inches in width and not less than 59 inches in height. The sill of such window opening shall be not more than 24 inches above the floor.
2.5.3	Exit doors and windows shall be openable from the inside without the use of a key or any special knowledge or effort.
2.5.4	Manually operated edge- or surface-mounted flush bolts and surface bolts are prohibited.
2.5.5	No sash, shutter, door or window shall be so fitted into the wall that its operation will reduce the required effective width or the required vertical clearance of landing runway, platform, ladder or stairs of a fire escape.
2.5.6	In existing buildings, door openings to fire escapes shall be cut as near to the floor level as structural conditions will permit.
2.6	Height and Clearance of Fire Escapes. 
2.6.1	There shall be a vertical clearance of not less than 10 feet underneath any fire escape balcony overhanging an area accessible to the public. This requirement shall apply to both fixed and movable sections. 
2.6.2	No part of a fire escape shall be less than 14 feet above a sidewalk, roadway, or public easement used as a roadway when any part of the fire escape overhangs the roadway or is within 2 feet of the outer edge of the sidewalk or curb.
2.6.3	Fire escapes, when installed over streets or alleys, may project beyond the property line not more than 54 inches.
2.7	Ladder or Stair to Ground. All fire escapes shall continue to the ground level. All fire escapes shall lead to exit courts, passageways or other means of egress which open to streets or alleys. 
Courts and passageways into which fire escapes lead shall be kept clear of obstructions at all times. Means of reaching the ground level from the lowest balcony of the fire escape shall be provided by one of the following methods:
2.7.1	A permanent inclined ladder or stair is required between balconies.
2.7.2	A swinging counter-balanced inclined stair or ladder constructed as required herein. Each such stair or ladder shall be counter-balanced about a pivot by the use of weights securely fixed to a lever arm. The arrangement of the swing section, pivot and counterweights shall be such that:
2.7.2.1	A live load weight of 150 pounds, placed one step from the pivot, will not start the section downward.
2.7.2.2	A live load weight of 150 pounds, placed one-fourth of the length of the swing section from the pivot, will positively cause it to swing down to grade.
2.7.3	Each such stair or ladder shall have unobstructed width at least equal to the unobstructed width of the stationary ladder or stairs above it. Its enclosure and railings shall be so arranged as to make remote as possible any probability of injury to persons at its head or on the landing or platform adjacent thereto when the section swings downward. 
2.7.4	All ladders or stairs shall be provided with substantial handrail supported with intermediate posts spaced as required.
2.7.5	The clearance between parts of the ladder or stair where the hands might be caught shall be at least 4 inches. Approved “KEEP CLEAR” signs shall be provided in buildings below fire escapes.
2.7.6	Permanent inclined ladders, swinging counter-balanced inclined ladders, stairs, or other devices when installed on any fire escape balcony, shall not be installed as to obstruct doorways, passageways, or other exits or means of egress. The terminal portion of such ladders or stairs shall end on a level surface of a size equivalent to a stair landing.
2.7.7	The above ladders, stairs or devices shall not be installed so as to interfere with the use of dry standpipes, sprinkler inlet connections, flush valves for refrigerants or any other similar devices.
2.8	Access to Roof. The fire escape shall extend to the roof of buildings having roofs with a slope of less than 4 in 12.
	EXCEPTION:  Group R Occupancies when serving only one dwelling unit.
2.8.1	A gooseneck ladder not exceeding 12 feet in height shall extend vertically from the balcony to and above the roof of the building. The sides of the ladder shall extend 3 feet above the fire wall or roof and shall be returned and connected to the roof behind the parapet or edge of roof.
2.8.2	The gooseneck ladder shall be securely braced and fastened to the outside wall and to the top of the parapet or roof. It shall not be placed in front of any opening in the wall of the building and shall have at least 8 inches’ clearance from the wall.
2.8.3	Openings in architectural projections, such as cornices, etc., for the passage of fire escape ladders shall be not less than 24 inches in width and 40 inches at right angles to the ladder.
2.9	Balcony Requirements. 
2.9.1	Fire escape balcony platforms shall be not more than 8 inches below the door sill or 18 inches below the windowsill giving access to the fire escape.
2.9.2	Every fire escape balcony shall be not less than 44 inches in width and not less than 10 feet in length inclusive of railings.
	EXCEPTIONS:
	1.	On existing buildings where the existing construction will not permit a balcony 10 feet in length, special balconies may be installed subject to the approval of the Director.
	2.	Balconies of 30 inches by 60 inches may be permitted when serving emergency escape or rescue windows or when serving ladders to the roof.
2.9.3	Ladder or stair openings in standard fire escape balcony floors shall be not less than 22 inches by 48 inches, and shall be at least 20 inches from the end railings. 
2.9.4	A passageway not less than 20 inches wide shall be provided next to the building.
2.9.5	The height of balcony balustrades shall conform to Section 1013.2. 
2.9.6	The area between the top rail and the floor of the balcony shall be protected by balusters, gratings, grills, solid panels or some similar noncombustible filling, except that material of less than 12 gauge expanded metal or wire mesh shall not be used.
2.9.7	Balusters, gratings, grills, and approved panels or fillings shall meet design load requirements. The balusters and intermediate rails shall be placed so that a 4-inch diameter ball cannot pass through the balustrade.
2.10	Ladder Requirements.
2.10.1	Where ladders are permitted they shall be not less than 18 inches wide, and the distance between rungs shall be not more than 12 inches. 
2.10.2	Ladders between landings shall be not less than 18 inches in width.
2.10.3	No vertical ladder shall be less than 8 inches from the wall of the building.
2.10.4	No part of any inclined ladder shall be less than 21 inches from the building.
2.10.5	Ladders shall have an inclination of not less than 4 inches measured horizontally to each 12 inches of vertical height, except for new fire escapes serving R-1 and R-2 Occupancies, the inclination shall be no greater than 60 degrees from horizontal.
2.10.6	Treads shall be at least 4 inches in width and not more than 12 inches apart.
2.10.7	Treads shall be checkered plate, carborundum impregnated steel or other nonslip material, except that treads on existing fire escapes may be replaced in kind.
2.11.1	Balconies and Platforms. Platform grating bars for all balconies shall be not less than 1 1/2 × 5/16 inch and shall be placed not more than 1 inch apart. Grating bars shall be tied together with at least two intermediate crossbars, not less than 1 1/2 × 3/8 inch in cross section. Grating bars on platforms shall be placed flat and shall be securely bolted to the supporting members with ½-inch diameter galvanized machine bolts.
2.11.1.1	The outside frames carrying the gratings shall be not less than 2 × 2 × 1/4 inch angles which shall extend all around the platform and be securely bolted to the channel iron outriggers or bearing beams with not less than 1/2-inch diameter galvanized machine bolts.
2.11.1.2	The top rail of all balconies shall be not less than 2 inches by 3/8 inch. Splices are not permitted in rails unless approved by the Director. At outside corners, the intersection of top rails shall be made with a 2-inch minimum radius curve by grinding or other means.
2.11.1.3	In platforms more than 10 feet in length, the rails shall be reinforced with intermediate brackets.
2.11.1.4	The horizontal rails shall be connected by means of a 6-inch channel or 3/8-inch hot bent plate, at the building, and anchored into same with 5/8-inch diameter galvanized through-bolts with the nuts on the outside of the wall.
2.11.1.5	The balusters, where used, shall be not less than 3/4 × 1/4 inch in cross-section.
2.11.1.6	The finish on the balconies shall not extend outside the rail.
2.11.2	Balcony Supports.
2.11.2.1	Masonry Buildings.
2.11.2.1.1	Cantilever supports for masonry buildings shall be spaced not more than 5 feet apart. 
2.11.2.1.2	Cantilevers carrying the ends of balconies shall be of not less than 4 C 5.4 channels, and the intermediate cantilevers shall be not less than 4 I 7.7 beams. 
2.11.2.1.3	Unless otherwise approved by the Director, all cantilevers shall go through the wall and have two 3 × 3 × 1/4 inch angle clips at the inside line of wall, and the allowable compression stresses of the masonry shall not be exceeded. 
2.11.2.1.4	Cantilevers may be bolted or welded to the steel frame of the building.
2.11.2.2	Wood Frame Buildings. 
2.11.2.2.1	Bracket supports for wood frame buildings shall be spaced not more than 5 feet apart. 
2.11.2.2.2	The horizontal members shall be installed with a minimum pitch of ¼ inch per foot away from the building.
2.11.2.2.3	Penetrations through weather-resistive barriers shall be thoroughly flashed and sealed.
2.11.2.2.4	The horizontal member of the intermediate brackets shall be not less than 5 C 6.7 channel placed flat, or 2 1/2 × 2 1/2 × 1/4 inch angle, and the diagonal strut shall be not less than 2 1/2 × 2 1/2 × 1/4 inch angle. The end brackets may be constructed from 3 C 4.1 channel for the horizontal member and 2 1/2 × 2 × 1/4 inch angle for the diagonal.
2.11.2.2.5	The connecting angle for the horizontal member on all brackets to the building shall not be less than 4 x 4 x 3/8 inch angle with 7/8-inch diameter galvanized bolts through the outer wall to heavy timber beams or joists of balconies.
2.11.2.2.6	The diagonal strut shall be secured to the building with 5/8-inch diameter galvanized bolts.
2.11.2.2.7	All bolts extending through the wall of heavy timber beams or joists shall have washers at the outside of the wall and shall be placed so that the thread and nuts will show on the outside face of the wall. 
2.11.2.2.8	Penetrations through weather-resistive barriers shall be thoroughly flashed and sealed.
2.11.2.2.9	All studs receiving the brackets shall be not less than 4 inches by 4 inches nominal size.
2.11.2.2.10	Alternative support methods may be used, provided the design is in accordance with other design provisions of this code.
2.11.3	Inclined ladders. 
2.11.3.1	Inclined ladder stringers and treads shall be not less than 4 × 1/4 inch plates.
2.11.3.2	Treads shall be riveted or welded to stringers. A continuous fillet weld on all sides and edges of the treads shall be provided when welding is used.
2.11.3.3	All inclined ladders shall be provided with substantial railings of not less than 15/16 inches outside diameter galvanized pipe, supported by not less than 1 1/4 x1/4 inch intermediate standards spaced as required and adequately bolted to the ladder rails.
2.11.4	Vertical Ladders. 
2.11.4.1	Ladders shall be constructed with not less than 2 1/2 × 3/8 inch side rails with a maximum space of 8 feet and with 3/4-inch diameter rungs placed 12 inches apart. 
2.11.4.2	Where vertical ladders join they shall be connected with not less than four 1/2- inch diameter galvanized machine bolts on each side.
2.11.4.3	Square corners will not be permitted on roof ladders. All roof ladder railings extending above and over the parapet wall or roof shall be rounded to a radius of not less than 3 inches.
2.12	Exit Lighting. Exterior illumination of one foot-candle (10.76 lx) of lighting to shall be provided in accordance with Section 1006 on the walking surface of the fire escape. 
3.0.	Any fire escape shall lead to a complying means of egress.
4.0.	A permit application and related submittal documents shall detail all construction which is approved as a result of this request for local equivalency. No work to install fire escapes as a required means of egress on existing buildings shall be done prior to approval of such permit application and issuance of a permit.
Originally Signed By:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director
October 3, 2002
Gary Massetani, Fire Marshal
October 9, 2002
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002
Attachment A: Request for Approval of Local Equivalency
AB-020  Local Equivalency for Exiting Through a Garage Area for Type V, Group R Buildings
NO. AB-020	:DATE	:September 18, 2002 (Updated 01/01/2014 for code references)SUBJECT	:Fire and Life SafetyTITLE	:Local Equivalency for Exiting Through a Garage Area for Type V, Group R BuildingsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to provide standards and procedures for the application and case-by-case review of requests for a Local Equivalency to allow exiting from a rear yard through garages in Type V [wood frame], Group R Occupancies when such paths of exit travel do not strictly comply with the provisions of the 2013 San Francisco Building Code (SFBC).
This bulletin permits the continuing application of code provisions of former editions of the SFBC regarding exiting through Group R garages. In conformance with current State law, requests for approval of this alternate path of exit travel will be considered on a case-by-case basis when reasonably equivalency is proposed.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 104A.2.7, Modifications.
- Section 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, alternate design and methods of construction.
- Chapter10, Means of Egress.
DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local EquivalenciesDISCUSSION	:Project sponsors may request the application of this Local Equivalency allowing exiting through a garage without strict compliance with the provisions of SFBC Chapter 10 when it can be demonstrated on a case-by- case basis that there are practical difficulties in meeting the provisions of the SFBC, that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of the SFBC, and that reasonable equivalency is provided in fire-protection and structural integrity.
Such proposed modification may be approved by the Department if it conforms with the below listed standard provisions. The Department of Building Inspection and other City departments may impose additional requirements, in addition to those listed below, in the approval of any request for a code modification or alternate based upon individual building and property conditions. The San Francisco Fire Department may also review such case-by-case requests.
If a project sponsor wishes to propose means of egress which differ from those listed below, proposals for the use of alternate materials, designs, or methods of construction may be submitted for review in the same manner as for this Local Equivalency. The Department of Building Inspection may require that additional substantiation be provided supporting any claims made for such proposals. 
Procedure for Application of Local Equivalencies
Project sponsors wishing to apply local equivalencies must fill out and submit the Request for Approval of Local Equivalency Form. Fees to be paid and scheduling of review are as noted on that form. Following DBI review, each request will be approved, approved with conditions, disapproved, or placed on “Hold” pending submittal of additional information.
Further details of procedures for the review of local equivalencies and appeal of departmental determinations may be found in Administrative Bulletin AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local Equivalencies.
Conditions of Local Equivalency
A required exit access from dwelling units in a Type V, Group R occupancy may be permitted to use a garage as part of the exit access on a case-by-case basis when all of the following provisions or other approved equivalent provisions are met and when the project sponsor provides documentation of the practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of the regular code.
The standard provisions of Local Equivalency include:
1.	The entire garage area and any covered driveway area shall be provided with ordinary- temperature, quick-response fire sprinklers; and
2.	The building has only one street frontage, and such street frontage is not greater than 37- 1/2 feet; and
3.	The path of exit travel through the garage shall be marked by at least 2 inches wide stripes placed parallel at 24 inches on center in clearly contrasting colors. The marked path shall be at least 10 feet wide, except that portions may be 3 feet wide when used solely for exiting and when separated from any parking area or covered driveway by permanent noncombustible railings or building walls at least 3 feet high. Such railings or building walls shall extend the full length of the pathway on each side, and any railings shall be set in a concrete curb at least 12 inches high and 8 inches thick; and
4.	The path of exit travel through the garage shall be posted with a permanent, prominently displayed sign in block letters not less than 3 inches in height reading: “EXIT PATH. DO NOT OBSTRUCT”; and
5.	All doorways or openings in the path of exit travel shall be a minimum of three feet wide. Sliding and overhead doors shall not be permitted in buildings under the jurisdiction of the San Francisco Fire Department. In other buildings, sliding and overhead doors shall not be permitted when the occupant load served is greater than ten. Any door installed in the path of exit travel shall meet the requirements of SFBC Section 1008.1; and
6.	The path of exit travel shall be illuminated in accordance with SFBC Section 1006; and 
7.	A permit application and related submittal documents shall detail all construction which is approved as a result of this request for local equivalency. No work to create a required exit which passes through a garage in a Type V, Group R Occupancy shall be done prior to approval and issuance of such permit application.
Originally Signed By:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director
October 3, 2002
Gary Massetani, Fire Marshal
October 9, 2002
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002
Attachment A:  Request for Approval of Local Equivalency
AB-023  Crane Site Safety Plan and Building Permits
NO. AB-023	:DATE	:January 2009 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)
[This bulletin supersedes AB-023, dated September 18, 2002, revised March 18, 2009, updated January 1, 2011 for code references]SUBJECT	:Plan Review; Permit ProcessTITLE	:Crane Site Safety Plan and Building PermitsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to detail procedures regarding tower crane safety which comply with the intent of 2013 San Francisco Building Code Section 1705.21.
Implementation of the intent of the code requires that a contractor identify the location of proposed crane operations on a Crane Site Safety Plan and agree to comply with all applicable tower crane safety regulations; to require the presence of a safety representative during tower crane erection, jumping, and dismantling, and to prohibit, without prior agreement with the City and County of San Francisco, the controlling contractor and the crane erector, these operations from taking place during high traffic hours; to require employment of a flag-person to redirect traffic when loads are lifted over public streets and walkways during high traffic hours; and to require the review, approval and permitting by the Department of Building Inspection of the structural elements of tower crane foundations and tie-in attachments.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code, Section 1705.21
Administrative Bulletin AB-046: Special Inspection and Structural Observation Procedures
Title 8, Occupational Safety and Health Regulations (CAL/OSHA), Chapter 4, Subchapter 7: General Industry Safety Orders, Group 13, Article 90, Cranes and Other Hoisting Equipment
Title 8, Chapter 4, Subchapter 7: General Industry Safety Orders, Group 13, Tower Cranes re: Requirements for erection, dismantling, operation, tests / examination of equipment and accessory gearDISCUSSION	:Following a tower crane collapse in November 1989, the State of California passed legislation regulating certain tower crane operations. The San Francisco Board of Supervisors approved an ordinance, based on that state legislation that added a section regarding tower crane safety requirements to the San Francisco Building Code (SFBC).
Crane safety remains under the jurisdiction of the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal/OSHA), which requires an erection permit prior to the construction of foundation, anchorage and the erection of a tower crane. A Cal/OSHA operational permit is also required prior to the crane operation. While the San Francisco Department of Building Inspection (DBI) has no direct authority over, and its employees have no expertise in, the regulation of tower cranes, the following forms and procedures were developed to administer the San Francisco Building Code requirements.
Definitions
For the purposes of this Administrative Bulletin, the following definitions apply:
	1.	Contractor is the building contractor, licensed by the State of California, responsible for tower crane site safety for the project.
	2.	High traffic hours means weekdays from 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM, 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM, excluding holidays.
	3.	Tower crane is a crane in which a boom, swinging (slewing) jib or other structural member is mounted on a vertical mast or tower, and includes the following subcategories as defined by Cal/OSHA General Industry Safety Orders, Article 91, 4885(V)(1- 4):
		a.	Tower crane (climber) is a crane that may be raised or lowered to different floors or levels of the building or structure, that is erected upon, near to, and/or supported by a building or other structure.
		b.	Tower crane (free standing) is a crane with a horizontally swinging or luffing boom which may be on a fixed base or mounted on rails and not attached to any other structure.
		c.	Tower crane (mobile) is a tower crane which is mounted on a crawler, truck or similar carrier for travel or transit.
		d.	Tower crane (self-erector) is a mobile tower crane that is truck-carrier mounted and capable of self- erection.
	4.	Jumping (climbing) a crane is the process of increasing or decreasing the height of a tower crane by raising the upper (slewing) section and inserting or removing modular tower sections beneath it.
	5.	Safety Representative shall mean a safety representative of the crane manufacturer, distributor, or a representative of a licensed crane certifier, per Cal/OSHA requirements.
General Requirements
This Administrative Bulletin shall apply to climber tower cranes and to free standing tower cranes; mobile tower cranes and self-erector tower cranes are exempt from these regulations, but must meet all other Cal/OSHA requirements.
A Crane Site Safety Plan and Building Permit Application (Form 3) for the tower crane foundation and tower crane attachments shall be submitted to the DBI Plan Review Services (PRS) Division for review and approval prior to the erection of any such tower crane or the construction of the tower crane foundation, except that the tower crane foundation, tower crane attachments and crane site safety plan may be part of any structural addendum related to the building construction.
Procedure
For the review and approval of the Crane Site Safety Plan Submittal Form and Crane Safety Compliance Agreement; and for the review, approval, and issuance of a building permit for tower crane foundation and tower crane attachments, the following procedure shall be used:
	1.	The contractor shall submit to DBI two copies of the following:
		•	Crane Site Safety Plan Submittal Form and Crane Safety Compliance Agreement (see Attachment A)
		•	Plans showing street locations, crane location, path of boom swing, designated loading areas and designated staging areas. Note:  A site plan showing which streets will be impacted by the moving, erection, and operation of the tower crane is required by DPW in order to obtain a street use permit for crane erection. That site plan can be used as the Crane Site Safety Plan by adding the additional information noted above.
		•	Completed building permit application form (Form 3) for tower crane foundation and tower crane attachments or other permit (see General Requirements above).
		•	Plans detailing the tower crane foundation and tower crane attachment details.
		•	Structural calculations supporting the design shown on the plans.
	2.	A DBI plans examiner will review the permit submittal documents to determine that all documents comprising the Crane Site Safety Plan Submittal Form and Crane Safety Compliance Agreement are complete.
	3.	If the tower crane foundation was not included in the approved building permit or an approved addendum to a site permit, then the contractor shall obtain a separate building permit for the tower crane foundation. The contractor shall submit to DBI for review, drawings and calculations for the tower crane foundation prepared by a licensed design professional in the state of California experienced in such design. If the foundation was included in the approved building permit or the approved addendum to a site permit, the Crane Site Safety Plan shall reference such permit.
	4.	If the tower crane attachments (tie-ins) are required but not included in the approved building permit or an approved addendum to a site permit, then the contractor shall obtain a separate building permit for the tower crane attachments. The contractor shall submit to DBI for review, drawings and calculations for the tower crane attachments (tie-ins) prepared by a licensed design professional in the State of California experienced in such design. If the tower crane attachments were included in the approved building permit or the approved addendum to a site permit, the Crane Site Safety Plan shall reference such permit.
	5.	If the submittal documents are in compliance with all applicable codes and this Administrative Bulletin, the plans examiner shall approve both copies of the submitted Crane Site Safety Plan and building permit application documents, where applicable.
	6.	The contractor shall submit to DBI a copy of a tower crane inspection certificate issued by a Cal/OSHA approved inspection agency following erection of the tower crane and prior to its use. This may be done by mail, fax, or in person. This submittal must indicate the site permit or building permit application number for the project and the building permit application number for the tower crane foundation and tower crane attachment.
	7.	Special inspection, structural testing, and structural observation requirements, shall be met as required by SFBC and AB-046.
	8.	All documents submitted to DBI related to the Crane Site Safety Plan and building permit application for tower crane foundation and tower crane attachments shall be archived as part of the approved permit documents.
Signed By: Vivian L. Day, C.B.O.			
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission September 18, 2002.
Revision approved March 18, 2009.
Attachment A:	Crane Site Safety Plan Submittal Form and Crane Safety Compliance Agreement.
AB-025  Preapplication Requirement for State Industrial Safety Permit for Certain Trenching, Demolition, and Construction Activities
NO. AB-025	:DATE	:October 30, 1984 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Permit Process; InspectionTITLE	:Preapplication Requirement for State Industrial Safety Permit for Certain Trenching, Demolition, and Construction ActivitiesPURPOSE	:Require Cal/OSHA Industrial Safety Permit before issuing DBI permits.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
State Health & Safety Code, Section 17922.5
State Labor Code, Section 6500DISCUSSION	:Section 17922.5 of the State Health & Safety Code requires local agencies that issue building permits to require building permit applicants to obtain a State Industrial Safety Permit prior to issuance of the local building permit.
Specifically, the State Industrial Safety Permit is required for the following categories of construction as defined in the “red and white tag” designated below:
STATE INDUSTRIAL SAFETY PERMIT
The attached application falls under the Labor Code Section 6500 in that it involves the type of construction work checked below:
•	Construction of trenches or excavations that are five feet or deeper and into which a person is required to descend.
•	The construction of any building, structure, falsework, or scaffolding more than three stories high or the equivalent height (36 ft.).
•	The demolition of any building, structure, falsework, or scaffold, more than three stories high or the equivalent height 
Central Permit Bureau shall notify the applicant by mail after the need for the State Industrial Safety Permit has been ascertained by the affected Divisions and the “red  and white tag” affixed to the office copy of the permit application as follows:
DIVISIONAPPLICATION FORMRESPONSIBLE PERSONNELRED & WHITE PROCEDUREBID3District Bldg. InspectorCheck appropriate box and attach to applicationCED3CED Bldg. Inspector“MPC1 & 2Plan Checker/Engineer“PRS 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8Plan Checker“
PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
It is the District Inspector’s responsibility to review his or her job cards for construction that may fall under the categories herein defined and for which proof that the contractor or owner’s agent has a State Industrial Safety Permit is mandatory. In those cases where proof is required, the Building Inspector is to contact the contractor and ask to see the State permit. If none is available, a Notice of Violation shall be given immediately to the Contractor or Owner’s representative at the job site. Unless proof of compliance has been shown within 5 days of the date of the notification, the permit is to be suspended on the 6th day and the job shut down. This review of “on-going” projects shall be instituted as soon as possible.
Originally signed by:
Robert C. Levy, Superintendent, BBI
AB-026  Noise Insulation Enforcement Procedures
NO. AB-026	:DATE	:December 21, 1984 (Updated 01/01/14 for code referencesSUBJECT	:Plan Check; InspectionTITLE	:Noise Insulation Enforcement ProceduresPURPOSE	:Enforcement of State mandated noise insulation requirements for new residential buildingsREFERENCES	:2013  San Francisco Building Code Section 1207
California Health and Safety Code, State Housing Law, Section 17922.6, 17922.7
Fire Resistance Design Manual, prepared by the Gypsum Assoc., 20th EditionDISCUSSION	:There has been some confusion and variations among Department personnel on the enforcement of Title 24 requirements for noise insulation. This bulletin consolidates current Department procedures and policies on the subject, and supersedes all previous interpretations and procedures.
The State regulations deal only with insulation against airborne noises such as caused by stereos and loud conversations (the STC rating), and against impact noises such as caused by walking or scraping a chair on a hard floor surface (the IIC rating). The criteria for compliance consists solely of meeting the prescriptive requirement of 50, or the field test requirement of 45.
There are many other sources of noise which could be significant irritants to building occupants, but which the regulations do not cover. DBI does not follow through on complaints about such noise sources. Examples include appliance noises, such as from garbage disposals, dishwashers and washing machines; mechanical equipment noises, such as from garage door openers, elevators and compressors; and plumbing system noises, such as from water hammer, flushing toilets and running water.
When there is doubt as to whether the completed building complies with the STC and IIC ratings, the Department can require the owner to obtain and pay for field testing to verify values of 45 of higher before a CFC is issued. Inspectors must discuss a situation with the Chief Inspector before requiring testing.
If a complaint is made to DBI over alleged non-compliance with STC or IIC requirements in a new building, DBI may require the owner to have field testing performed, but only after the complainant posts a bond to cover the cost of testing. In the event the test results show compliance (45 of higher), the cost of the testing must be paid by the complainant. If the tests show non-compliance, the owner will be required to take measures to increase the ratings to 45, and to pay for the testing and retesting.
Field testing is performed to applicable provisions of ASTM E90, E413, and E492. The testing agency and procedures must be pre-approved by DBI.
APPLICABILITY
The noise insulation requirements apply only to residential use buildings for which permits were applied after August 22, 1974, i.e. to Form 1 and 2 applications. They do not apply to buildings constructed before 1974 in which new units are created through alterations, additions or changes of use.
REQUIREMENTS
1.	Wall and floor-ceiling assemblies which separate living units or guest rooms from each other, or from common areas of the building such as hallways and garages, must meet a Sound Transmission Class (STC) of 50.
2.	Floor-ceiling assemblies must meet an Impact Insulation Class (IIC) of 50.
PLAN CHECKING PROCEDURE
The Plan Reviewer shall do and/or obtain the following:
1.	Check that every party wall and party floor-ceiling on the floor plans are referenced to cross-sections which clearly show the construction of the assemblies. Give specific attention to areas with dropped ceilings and luminous ceilings.
2.	Check the Catalog of STC & IIC Ratings, prepared by the State of Office of Noise Control, the Fire Resistance Design Manual, prepared by the Gypsum Association, and /or other standards, to see if a comparable wall assembly has an STC of 50 or higher. If an assembly has been accepted by the Department through the product approval process, check the approval or its file for possible STC ratings. Where no comparable assembly is found, the plan reviewer may estimate the STC rating by comparing the assembly against a listed assembly which appears to have slightly more mass and/or insulation features, and with another assembly which has less. In this manner, it is often possible to extrapolate an STC for a listed assembly. Before doing so, checkers should have studied the listings in the Catalog of STC & IIC Ratings the Fire Resistance Design Manual, or other standards, sufficiently to understand how mass and/or insulation features affect the STC ratings. Where such estimates cannot be made with a fairly high degree of confidence, the plan reviewer should ask the designer to either revise the plans to use a listed assembly with an STC of 50 or higher, or to provide test reports for the shown assembly which justify ratings of 50 or higher.
3.	Floor-ceiling assemblies should be checked in a manner similar to Step 2 for an IIC rating of 50 or higher. If the IIC is achieved through the use of carpet and padding, the plans must be annotated to indicate which areas require them, and that the installation of carpets is mandatory.
4.	The plans must be annotated to require the following:
	- The bottom plate in party walls must be caulked.
	- Penetrations or openings in party walls and floor-ceilings for piping, electrical switches and outlets, recessed light fixtures, recessed cabinets, bathtubs and ducts must be sealed, lined, insulated, or otherwise treated to maintain the required ratings.
	- Dwelling unit entrance doors from interior corridors, together with their perimeter seals, must attain an STC of 30 or higher.
5.	Check that electrical switches and outlets in party walls are not installed back-to-back in the same stud space. Check that recessed light fixtures are not installed in party floor-ceilings unless such devices are boxed in with materials equivalent to the surface materials, and further that the joints in such boxes, and openings for wiring, are caulked. Check that recessed medicine cabinets have not been installed in party walls. Check that the bottom plate in party walls are caulked. For bathtubs located adjacent to party walls, check that sheetrock or wall covering extend below the top edge of the tub down to the floor.
6.	When buildings on adjacent lots have common courts or light wells, and both buildings have windows opening onto them, the windows must be located at least 3 feet from the common property line (i.e. 6 feet between edges or faces of windows). Alternatively, special acoustical treatment may be provided which will attain STC 50 (or 45 if field tested).
INSPECTION PROCEDURE
The Building Inspector in BID shall do the following:
1.	Pay specific attention to the construction of party walls and party floor-ceilings during the frame inspection to see that materials, sound blankets, dimensions, clearances, etc. are as shown on the sections of the approved plans. Check that luminous or dropped ceilings will not be installed in party floor-ceilings unless they are shown on the approved plans.
	If changes were made from the approved plans, the Inspector may accept the as- constructed assembly only if he or she can find a very similar assembly listed in the Catalog of STC & IIC Ratings, prepared by the State Department of Health Services Office of Noise Control or the Fire Resistance Design Manual, prepared by the Gypsum Association. Failing that, the inspector should make a sketch of the as-built assembly and refer it to the plan checker for review. Meanwhile, the inspector shall not approve the frame inspection. If the contractor does not want to be delayed by such a review, or if the plan checker concludes the as-built assembly will not meet an STC or IIC of 50, the Inspector should inform the contractor of the option to alter the construction to comply, or to test the completed building for ratings of 45. If the contractor decides to test, he or she must notify the Inspector in writing. Inform the contractor that if the testing shows non-compliance, the cost of correction would likely be much higher at that stage than at the frame stage.
2.	Check that electrical switches and outlets in party walls are not installed back-to-back in the same stud space. Check that recessed light fixtures are not installed in party floor-ceilings unless such devices are boxed in with materials equivalent to the surface materials, and further that the joints in such boxes, and openings for wiring, are caulked. Check that recessed medicine cabinets have not been installed in party walls. Check that the bottom plate in party walls are caulked. For bathtubs located adjacent to party walls, check that sheetrock or wallcovering extend below the top edge of the tub down to the floor.
3.	Interior hallway doors are required to be 20 minutes rated (i.e. solid core). Thus they may be presumed to meet the STC 30 rating. However, check that the perimeter seals are in place before final inspection.
Originally signed by:
Franklin Lew for Robert C. Levy, Superintendent, BBI
AB-027  Illegal Unit Reoccupancy Enforcement Procedure
NO. AB-027	:DATE	:February 5, 1985 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Code EnforcementTITLE	:Illegal Unit Reoccupancy Enforcement ProcedurePURPOSE	:To set forth procedure for handling repeat violations, by the same owner reoccupying an illegal unit.REFERENCE	:2013  San Francisco Building Code
- Section 102A, Unsafe Building
- Section 103A, ViolationsDISCUSSION	:Whenever illegal units are re-occupied after a Certificate of Final Completion (CFC) was issued to remove the illegal unit and the ownership has not changed, the enforcement procedure for these cases will be as follows:
1.	Send a notice requiring the application for a building permit within ten (10) days to revert the structure to its legal use and to complete the work within thirty (30) days of issuance of the permit.
2.	A copy of the notice will be sent to the Planning Department.
3.	If the case has already had a Director’s Hearing on the same problem, the notice will  also include the statement “failure to comply will result in referral of the matter to the City Attorney’s office for further action.”
4.	If the case has not had a Director’s Hearing, the notice will include the statement “failure to comply will result in the referral to the Director of Building Inspector for an Abatement Hearing.”
The time limits specified must be adhered to and all referrals to Code Enforcement Section (CES) must also include the above statements which are applicable and documented inspection reports.
Originally signed by:
Robert C. Levy, Superintendent, BBI
AB-028  Pre-application and Pre-addendum Plan Review Procedures
NO. AB-028	:DATE	:April 3, 2013(Updated 01/01/14 for code references) 
(Supersedes Administrative Bulletin AB-028 dated 9/18/2002, Updated 01/01/11 for code references.)SUBJECT	:General Administrative ProceduresTITLE	:Pre-application and Pre-addendum Plan Review ProceduresPURPOSE	:To establish policies and procedures allowing for review and comment of specific design issues by the Department of Building Inspection (DBI) prior to application for a permit or prior to the submittal of addenda to a Site Permit.REFERENCE	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 106A.4.9  Pre-application Plan Review or Inspection
- Section 110, Table 1A-B, Other Building Permit Application and Plan Review Fees
- DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-032, Site Permit ProcessingDISCUSSION	:A preliminary verbal interpretation of a code requirement or alternate method of construction is considered informal information and may not always be accepted by the Department of Building Inspection plan reviewer or supervisor who has been assigned to check the submittal documents for a project. Rather than wait for the plan review to reveal requirements of specific design issues, it may be advantageous to project sponsors to verify code requirements with a formal DBI interpretation prior to completion of project drawings and before submitting an application for a building permit or an addendum to a Site Permit.
This bulletin sets out the procedure for requesting, conducting and concluding such a Pre- application or Pre-Addendum Plan Review Meeting. It is not intended that a general, non- directed plan review of a project will be made during this meeting, but that specific code issues will be addressed and resolved. Formal written confirmation of decisions agreed upon will be issued to the project sponsor following the meeting.
Request For Pre-Application or Pre-Addendum Plan Review Meeting
1.	Submit requests for a pre-application or pre-addendum plan review meeting in writing as follows:
	a.	List the items to be reviewed in the form of specific questions. The applicant shall propose a solution or provide a statement of position regarding each question asked, and shall include pertinent code references. Each item should be numbered. This list of questions or items will then form the agenda for review and response.
	b.	Include applicable drawings, documents, and other information as necessary to describe the conditions under question.
	c.	On the submitted drawings, highlight or “cloud” the areas to be reviewed, and provide cross-references to the questions. Where questions pertain to means of egress, indicate the path of egress on the drawings with arrows.
2.	To cover fees, include a check made out to the Department of Building Inspection (See FEES below).
3.	Address requests to:
		Manager, Permit Services
		Department of Building Inspection
		1660 Mission Street
		San Francisco, CA   94103-2414
	Indicate on the outside of the envelope: Pre-Application/Pre-Addendum Plan Review Request
4.	Provide several acceptable meeting times of your choice. Allow at least 10 working days for a response to the request for a meeting appointment.
Meeting and Response
5.	The Manager, Plan Review Services, will assign your pre-application or pre-addendum plan review request to one of the following section supervisors:
	a.	Structural Plan Review
	b.	Mechanical Plan Review
	c.	Premium Plan Review
	d.	Other Department staff as required
6.	The request for a pre-application or pre-addendum plan review meeting may result in a meeting or it may result in a letter of response, if that is determined to be appropriate by the responsible Supervisor.
7.	The review will be conducted by the Supervisor of the appropriate section or by other staff as assigned. One or more plan reviewers from Department of Building Inspection staff may be assigned to participate in the pre- application or pre-addendum plan review meeting depending on the complexity of the project and the issues raised. When necessary, representatives from other agencies such as the San Francisco Fire Department, Department of Public Works, Department of Public Health, Planning Department, or the Redevelopment Agency may be requested to attend.
8.	The Department representative will have final authority to determine which questions are addressed. Questions which are determined to be too broad in scope may be deleted from the agenda. Discussion will be limited to the items on the agenda.
9.	The Department may request additional information from the project sponsor in preparation for a pre- application or pre-addendum plan review meeting or as a follow-up to such a meeting.
10.	At the beginning of a meeting the project sponsor will be advised of the time allowed before additional plan review fees will be charged. A typical pre-application or pre-addendum plan review meeting, depending on the complexity of the project or issue, can be covered adequately in 2 hours or less of meeting time.
11.	A Department of Building Inspection staff member or the project sponsor will be designated to take notes during the meeting. If the size or location of the meeting warrants, the Department representative may request that a third party take the notes. Notes shall be taken on a standard form provided by DBI. At the conclusion of the meeting a copy of the notes taken during the meeting will be provided to the principal attendees. Those notes, which record the findings and agreements of the meeting, are to be signed by a Department of Building Inspection representative, by representatives of other departments as applicable, and by the project sponsor. Questions or topics not acknowledged in these notes will not be considered as part of the pre- application or pre-addendum plan review agreements. Alternatively, the Department may choose to issue a letter following the meeting. Such letter or other written communication shall be prepared by Department staff or the project sponsor within 10 working days of the conclusion of the meeting. Within 10 working days of receipt of such letter, the DBI staff will review and return the letter, signed, as “approved,” “approved with conditions,” or “disapproved.”  The letter shall state the reasons for such determinations. DBI will track the time of issuance and approval of such letters to confirm that the above time limits are met.
12.	For clarity, each item number of the written response shall correspond to the item number on the agenda.
13.	Any notes, annotated drawings and other documents from the meeting may be attached to the notes or letter of agreement and submitted by the project sponsor for reference at the time of permit or addendum application.
14.	The project sponsor shall attach a copy of the signed conclusions of the pre-application or pre-addendum plan review meeting, or the letter of response in lieu of meeting, to the permit application or addendum drawings. These decisions will be honored by the responsible plan reviewer during the plan review process and subsequently by field inspection staff.
15.	The project sponsor may request a review of the determination of the staff of the Department of Building Inspection by the Manager of Plan Review Services or the Director. Determinations of the Director may be appealed to the Building Inspection Commission. Certain issues related to alternate methods and materials and technical equivalencies may be appealed to the Board of Examiners.
16.	In the event the code provisions referenced by the application are substantively revised prior to filing for permit, the applicant will be required to submit for a new pre-application plan review meeting.
FEES:
16. 	Fee Schedule:
	a.	Fees for initial and each subsequent meeting for a pre-application or pre- addendum plan review meeting are as noted in the 2010 San Francisco Building Code Fee Schedule, Table 1A-B, Item 5, Pre-application Plan Review Fee. This fee covers a review of the submitted documents, research, formulating a response, and the meeting itself. The meeting time shall not exceed a total of two hours under this base fee.
	b.	Additional meeting time beyond two hours for both pre-application and pre- addendum meetings is to be charged on a per person, hourly basis per San Francisco Building Code, Table 1A-D, Item 1.
	c.	The San Francisco Fire Department charges plan review fees in addition to the above fees when Fire Department personnel are included in a meeting.
17.	Fees, in addition to the pre-application plan review fee paid in advance, will be calculated at the conclusion of the meeting. Notes or letters of agreement will not be released by the Department until all pre-application or pre- addendum plan review fees are paid.
18.	If the initial pre-application or pre-addendum plan review fee is paid but no such meeting is subsequently held and no preparatory work has been done, the fee may be refunded upon written request by the project sponsor and agreement by the Department.
Revision signed by:
Tom C. Hui, S.E., C.B.O, Acting Director		April 3, 2013
Revision signed by:
Thomas Harvey, Fire Marshal			March 28, 2013
Originally approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002, revision approved March 20, 2013
Attachment:  Sample Question
AB-031  Identification of Revisions on Pages of Drawings
NO. AB-031	:DATE	:June 21, 1984 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Plan ReviewTITLE	:Identification of Revisions on Pages of DrawingsPURPOSE	:Information on submittal documents, including revised drawings, shall be in conformity with the San Francisco Building Code and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed.REFERENCE	:2013 San Francisco Building Code, Section 106A.3.3DISCUSSION	:Revisions to submittal documents pending review and approval by the Department should be clearly identified on the revised sheets to facilitate review, to reduce discrepancies in the review and to speed the review process. Revisions are to be identified by one of the following methods:
	1.	Revisions to portions of a page shall be marked by identifying the change with arrows or encircling the change with a “cloud” symbol. The title block should be marked with the date and number of the revision. Notation of the date may be placed near the change in addition to the title block.
	2.	If an entire page is changed, the title block should be so marked, noting the date and number of revisions. 
If a second or third revision is made on a page already containing a revision, the previous revision symbol or markings shall be removed, however, the title block should note the number and date of the revisions.
Originally signed by:
Robert C. Levy, Superintendent, BBI
AB-035  Procedure for Assigning Street Numbers (Addresses)
NO. AB-035	:DATE	:January 19, 2011 (updated 01/01/14 for code references) 
(supersedes Administrative Bulletin AB-035 issued September 18, 2002, updated 01/01/08 and 1/1/11 for code references)SUBJECT	:General Administrative ProceduresTITLE	:Procedure for Assigning Street Numbers (Addresses)PURPOSE	:To establish a procedure for assigning and/or changing street numbers (addresses) to new buildings, tenant space street entrances, new parcels, vacant lots, and any other street addressing need of the City and County of San Francisco.REFERENCE	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 107A.10, Building Numbers and Fees
- Table 1A-J, Miscellaneous FeesDISCUSSION	:Every project sponsor shall obtain an official street number prior to the submittal of a building permit application when the work consists of a new building or a new street entrance to a new tenant space or dwelling unit in an existing building. Every residential property owner shall request in writing and receive approval from the Building Official for a change in a street number assignment. The following procedures shall apply to the assignment and/or change of street numbers.
Entrances to be Numbered
All primary entrances from the street to all buildings and all direct entrances from the street to separate tenant spaces or dwelling units shall be numbered. Only the building number officially assigned by the Building Official may be displayed on the building.
The numbers shall be placed on the front of the building adjacent to the entrance so as to be easily seen from the street. The street numbers assigned shall be placed on the building in a place and manner acceptable to the Building Official in accordance with Section 107A.10 of the San Francisco Building Code.
[Historical Note:  The following procedures for assigning street numbers are long term provisions of San Francisco codes. These procedures have been brought forward from the 1909 San Francisco Building Code through subsequent editions of that code.]
Method of Numbering
Market Street shall be the starting point for the numbers of all buildings fronting on the streets beginning thereon and running therefrom in any direction. On Webster, Fillmore, Steiner, Pierce, Scott, Divisadero, Broderick, Baker and Lyon Streets, and Central Avenue, and streets in the Sunnyside, Lakeview, Railroad Homestead and City Land Association tracts, the numbering shall begin at their southerly ends and proceed toward the north.
On all streets having a northerly and southerly course, diverging less than 45 degrees from a northerly and southerly course and not otherwise provided for, the numbering shall begin at their northerly ends and proceed toward the south. On all streets having an easterly and westerly course, or diverging less than 45 degrees from an easterly and westerly course, the numbering shall begin at their easterly ends and proceed toward the west, except that on streets lying south of Cesar Chavez [Army Street] and running from Mission in an easterly or southerly direction, and also on [Bernal Avenue], Montezuma and Aztec Streets, Esmeralda Avenue, [and on streets in Gift Maps 1 and 2], the numbering shall start at their westerly ends and proceed toward the east. On all intermediate subdivision streets, the numbering shall commence where the streets begin and proceed in the same direction as the numbering on the principal streets between which they lie.
[Note: Street and place names which are shown in brackets no longer exist or have been renamed.]
Even and Odd Numbers
On all streets the numbers on the right hand side, starting from the point of beginning, shall be even numbers, and the numbers on the left hand side shall be odd numbers; except that on all streets having a northerly and southerly course, and lying west of Central Avenue and Presidio Avenue but not including Central Avenue, the numbers on the right hand side, starting from the point of beginning, shall be odd numbers and the numbers on the left hand side shall be even numbers.
Allotment of Numbers
One hundred numbers, or as many thereof as may be necessary, shall be allotted to the property frontage in each block between two main streets. The number 100 shall be the first number on the right hand side, and the number 101 the first number on the left hand side of the second block of all streets, except those lying west of Central Avenue and Presidio Avenue, but not including Central Avenue. The succeeding hundreds shall be allotted in a similar manner consecutively in each succeeding block, except that on Mission, Natoma, Howard, Folsom, Harrison, Bryant, Jackson, Pacific, Broadway, Vallejo, Green, Union, Francisco, Bay and Webster Streets, and on Central Avenue, 100 numbers shall be allotted to the first two blocks. One hundred numbers shall also be allotted on Divisadero Street between Waller and Page Streets. When a block exceeds 850 feet in length, 200 numbers shall be allotted to it.
For the purpose of preserving uniformity in the numbering along Market Street, so that the numbers on both sides of the street shall conform as nearly as possible, 50 even numbers shall be allotted to each of the following apportionments of frontage along the northerly side of Market Street: between the westerly line of Spear Street, proceeding northerly, and the easterly line of Drumm Street; between Battery and Montgomery Streets; between Kearny and Stockton Streets; between Powell and Taylor Streets; and between Jones Street and [Marshall Square].
Fifty odd numbers shall be allotted to each of the following apportionments of frontage along the southerly side of Market Street: between Embarcadero and Spear Street; between Twelfth and Valencia Streets; between Guerrero and Dolores Streets; and between Church and Sanchez Streets.
When any street fails in its course to traverse certain blocks, 100 numbers shall be allotted to each block not traversed, in the same manner as if the street were continuous. When any street is intersected on its opposite sides by different streets, the hundreds on one side shall be made to correspond as closely as possible to the hundreds on the opposite side by allotting only 25 numbers, even or odd as the case may require, to the side which the blocks are shorter.
One number shall be allowed for each one-fiftieth (1/50) of the frontage of each block between two main streets, except in blocks having a frontage of less than 400 feet where the allowance shall be made on the basis of one number to every eight feet of frontage.
Renumbering
Any Property Owner may request a change to an existing street number assignment. Approval of the request for change to an existing street number assignment shall not be denied if such request can reasonably be granted. A request in writing must be made to the Building Official requesting a change to the existing street number assignment. Proof of property ownership must be submitted if requested by the Building Official and any other information as needed for determination of request approval.
If a property is tenant-occupied, the property owner must also submit documentation acceptable to the Building Official that all tenants have been notified of the proposed street number change request.
Nothing in this bulletin shall authorize the renumbering of any block which is now uniformly numbered in accordance with any previous law, unless such renumbering is made necessary by the construction or alterations of buildings whereby the number of entrances to buildings on such blocks has been so increased as to prevent consecutive numbering.
Responsibilities
Building Official
The Building Official shall notify all applicable Federal, State, County, City and local agencies requesting and/or requiring notification of new and/or changed street number assignments. The Building Official shall also provide the property owner with an approved and issued street number assignment permit.
Property Owner/Project Sponsor
The property owner/project sponsor must notify all private entities and tenants of the issued street number assignment. The property owner must properly identify the affected building(s) as provided in Section 107A.10 of the San Francisco Building Code within 60 days of the issued street number assignment but no sooner than 10 days to allow for proper notification to others.
Notice to be Given
Whenever any violation of the provisions of this bulletin relating to the numbering of buildings exists, notice thereof shall be given to the owner, or if they cannot be found, to the occupant of the premises where the violation occurs. If, after two weeks, the cause of complaint has not been removed, the provisions detailed in Section 103A of the San Francisco Building Code shall be applied.
Temporary Retention of Old Numbers
Whenever any property owner has been notified to change the numbers of his building, the old numbers may be temporarily retained, in addition to the new numbers, but in no case shall the old numbers be retained for more than sixty (60) days after the official notice to change them.
Fees
The fee for each numbered building entrance is shown in Section 110A, Table 1A-J of the San Francisco Building Code.
Signed by:
Vivian L. Day, C.B.O.			
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002,
Revision approved January 19, 2011.
AB-036  Special Inspection for Demolition Work
NO. AB-036	:DATE	:October 20, 1993 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:InspectionTITLE	:Special Inspection for Demolition WorkPURPOSE	:For demolition of buildings of Types I, II, III and IV construction, and which are over 2 stories or 25 feet in height, a special inspector shall be on the site to observe and/or supervise the work to assure it is proceeding in a safe manner.REFERENCE	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- 1705.8, Demolition
- 3307, Protection of Adjoining Property
- 3303.8, Special InspectionDISCUSSION	:Demolition work creates ongoing, and often sudden, life hazards. The general requirements for special inspection in SFBC Sec. 1705.8, are made more specific in this ruling to reflect the need for extra supervision of such work.
Requirement
The Demolition Contractor or permit applicant shall identify the Special Inspector for demolition work before a demolition permit is issued. For buildings over 6 stories high, the Contractor and Special Inspector shall meet with the Department of Building Inspection (DBI) District Inspector to review the demolition work and arrive at a clear understanding on what is expected of all parties prior to the start of work. The Demolition Contractor shall notify the Special Inspector and the District Inspector at least two days prior to the start of the demolition operations. By obtaining the permit, the applicant acknowledges the authority of the Special Inspector over the demolition work as described below.
The Special Inspector:
1.	Shall be a registered Civil Engineer or licensed Architect, and preferably, the individual who prepared the approved demolition sequence. Shall be at the site at all times when dismantling or demolition work is proceeding on any component which, when removed, reduces the stability of the building. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
	a.	Exterior walls 
	b.	Bearing walls
	c.	Beams, girders and columns
	d.	Diaphragms (roof and floors which contribute stability to building)
2.	Shall observe and/or direct that the work conforms with the sequence of operations which was approved by DBI. In the event a potentially hazardous situation develops as a result of conditions uncovered or unintentionally created by the demolition work, the Special Inspector shall notify DBI by telephone as soon as possible, and at that point shall require and allow only corrective work to take place to substantially reduce the hazards present. The Special Inspector shall then not allow any more work to be done until a revised demolition sequence has been submitted to DBI and approved.
	In the event an unexpected development occurs which jeopardizes the public, such as materials falling onto the street or partial collapse of a wall, the Inspector may allow the demolition work to continue only if all the following conditions are complied with:
	a.	No continuing hazards to the public exist after the incident. 
	b.	No significant deviations from the approved sequence are necessary as a result of the incident.
	c.	The Contractor provides/establishes measures and assurances that such incidents will not occur again, to the satisfaction of the Inspector.
	d.	The Special Inspector reports the incident to DBI in writing as soon as possible. The report shall explicitly address the issues in conditions a through c above.
	If the above conditions are not met, the Special Inspector shall stop the job and notify DBI. The Special Inspector shall not allow the work to resume until DBI gives permission.
	In the event deviations from the approved sequence are necessary due to unexpected field conditions, and potentially hazardous conditions are not present or would not be created, the inspector may allow or direct such deviations be made without stopping the work. Such deviations shall be reported in his next report to DBI.
3.	Shall make written reports to DBI on a weekly basis or as required by DBI. Such reports shall include information on the progress of the demolition, any deviations which were not reported previously, and a statement that the demolition work is adhering to the approved sequence.
4.	May be an employee of the Special Inspector only when the following conditions are complied with:
	a.	The employee is a registered Civil Engineer or licensed Architect.
	b.	The employee shall be under the immediate supervision of the Special Inspector. The Special Inspector shall provide to DBI a written statement in which he acknowledges complete responsibility for the inspection work, actions and decisions of the employee.
	c.	All reports shall be signed by the Engineer or Architect.
Originally signed by:
Dot Y. Yee, Deputy Superintendent
AB-040  Referral of Design Professionals and Contractors to Regulatory Agencies
NO. AB-040	:DATE	:March 23, 2002 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:General Administrative ProceduresTITLE	:Referral of Design Professionals and Contractors to Regulatory AgenciesPURPOSE	:The purpose of this bulletin is to establish guidelines and procedures for referring design professionals and contractors to the State License Boards review for possible disciplinary action when the Department of Building Inspection believes there are serious violations of State regulations.REFERENCES	:California Business and Professions Code, Division 3. Professions and Vocations 
California Business and Professions Code, Section 325-326, Consumer Complaints
California Code of Regulations, Title 16, Professional and Vocational RegulationsDISCUSSION	:These guidelines shall be used in instances where a licensed design professional or contractor appears to be in substantial noncompliance with the regulations governing their activities. Such substantial noncompliance may  include activities which appear to be, but not be limited to, unlicensed practice, gross incompetence, negligence, violation of local codes and regulations, or the provision of false or misleading information.
The Department of Building Inspection shall review concerns based on information available and make recommendations as are believed to be consistent with public safety and welfare. The Department shall not hold hearings, take testimony, engage in debate with the regulated or licensed persons, or otherwise assume the role of another regulatory agency. 
PROCEDURE:
When it comes to the attention of the Department of Building Inspection through an employee or a complaint from the public that there may be substantial noncompliance with regulatory requirements the following actions should be taken. 
	1.	A public complainant shall be given information regarding filing a complaint directly with a licensing or regulatory agency. If the Department believes that a complaint received from the public may be of interest to the Department of Building Inspection to review for further action, in addition to providing information to the complainant regarding the direct filing of a complaint, a staff person shall make note of the complaint and proceed as detailed below.
	2.	Any staff person of the Department of Building Inspection who believes that there may be an issue of substantial noncompliance shall immediately bring the matter to the attention of their supervisor who shall immediately notify the appropriate Manager.
	3.	A brief written summary of the concern shall be prepared by the staff person, their supervisor or the Manager.
	4.	The staff person and their supervisor, shall review the matter with the appropriate Manager, in consultation with the City Attorney, to determine if there are reasonable grounds for further review of the matter.
	5.	If a further review is determined to be appropriate by the Manager, a staff person assigned by that Manager shall review the matter and prepare a report containing the following information:
		a.	A description of the concern which has led the Department to consider referral for review by the regulatory agency.
		b.	All report, notes and other documentation from inspectors or other persons with immediate knowledge of the issues related to the potential complaint.
		c.	All permit application forms and other permit documents related to the potential complaint.
		d.	Letters, plans, calculations and all other documents which might aid in the review of the matter.
		e.	Other relevant information such as license and insurance information, complaints by other City agencies or outside parties, other DBI actions, etc.
		f.	Department and other City records which may reveal other instances of possible noncompliance.
	6.	The Manager, following consultation with the City Attorney, shall review the completed report and make a determination to:
		a.	undertake further research and reporting
		b.	dismiss the matter
		c.	recommend to the Director to proceed with a referral to a regulatory agency
		d.	take other action as they deem appropriate
	7.	If the Manager’s determination is to recommend a referral to a regulatory agency, a complaint shall be prepared by a person assigned by the Manager, based on the rules and regulations of the regulatory agency. The complaint shall be accompanied by a cover letter prepared for the signature of the Director. 
	8.	The complete file, including a cover letter prepared for the Director’s signature, a written recommendation for referral by the Manager, the formal complaint referral in a form required by the regulatory agency, and the Department’s report and related documentation shall be forwarded to the Director for review.
	9.	The Director may request additional information, may dismiss the matter, or may sign the complaint and refer the matter to the Building Inspection Commission’s Litigation Committee for review and approval prior to referring the complaint to the appropriate regulatory agency. 
Signed by:
Frank Y.Chiu, April 26, 2002
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on April 17, 2002
AB-042  Board of Examiners: Request for Variance, New Materials, or Alternate Methods of Construction
NO. AB-042	:DATE	:September 18, 2002 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)
[Supersedes Administrative Bulletin AB-042 originally issued 05/19/89, revised 08/10/90; updated 01/01/11 for code references]SUBJECT	:Plan Review; Permit ProcessTITLE	:Board of Examiners: Request for Variance, New Materials, or Alternate Methods of ConstructionPURPOSE	:To establish policies and procedures for hearings before the Board of Examiners to request a variance from a building code requirement, or approval for the use of new or alternate materials, methods or types of construction.REFERENCE	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 105A.1, Board of Examiners
- Section 110A, Table 1A-K Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement AssessmentsDISCUSSION	:An applicant for a building permit may find that a specific new construction material, method of construction or type of construction cannot be approved by the Department of Building Inspection (DBI) because it does not comply with the specific requirements of the code. An applicant may find that it is difficult to achieve full compliance with the requirements of the building codes without experiencing practical difficulties. Under those circumstances the applicant may appeal to the Board of Examiners for approval of a variance or a new or alternate material, method or type of construction. 
The Board of Examiners, after reviewing submitted exhibits and data with respect to a building permit application, is empowered to determine whether the use of new or unusual products or construction methods complies with the standards of safety set by the various codes. Likewise, the Board of Examiners may determine whether variances from the requirements of the codes can be accepted in instances where compliance would result in a practical difficulty or unreasonable hardship. A determination of acceptance may include conditions which must be satisfied. The Board of Examiners may not approve a request which would result in a condition less safe than otherwise required by the codes.
Review and Appeals with DBI Staff
Before an appeal of a matter may be made to the Board of Examiners, the permit applicant must request review of a staff disapproval of a proposed condition of a building permit application to the next level of DBI management, up to and including the Director (see attached Diagram AB-042.)  The San Francisco Fire Department must be consulted when a matter is within their jurisdiction. Any Fire Department disapproval may be appealed in accordance with Fire Department procedures. DBI and Fire Department review at each step shall be completed within 10 working days of the request by the appellant or the request shall be deemed disapproved and may advance to the next administrative review level.
•	Where permit applicants do not agree with staff regarding an interpretation of the codes, or where applicants are denied approval to use a new material, method or type of construction, the disagreement or denial may be appealed to the plan reviewer's Team Leader or to the Senior Inspector supervising the field inspector. 
•	If unable to reach an agreement with the Team Leader or Senior Inspector, the permit applicant may appeal the disagreement or denial to the Division Supervisor, Chief or Manager for resolution.
•	If unable to reach an agreement with the Division's Supervisor, Chief or Manager, the issue may be taken up with the Deputy Director of Permit Services or the Deputy Director of Inspection Services for resolution.
•	The Deputy Director may choose to meet with the Director of the Department of Building Inspection before issuing a final administrative determination. If the permit applicant does not accept the Director's conclusion, the applicant may then appeal to the Board of Examiners if the issue is within that Board's jurisdiction.
Request for Board of Examiners Review
Requests for Board of Examiners review must be submitted in writing (see attached Form AB-042.)
•	Submit 10 completed copies of Form AB-042 along with all other relevant information such as architectural plans, engineering reports, laboratory test data, and photos to:
		Secretary, Board of Examiners
		Department of Building Inspection
		1660 Mission Street
		San Francisco, CA  94103
	The Board of Examiners will not review requests which do not, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Board of Examiners, include all necessary data, test results, and related materials.
•	Enclose a check for the filing fee made payable to the Department of Building Inspection in the amount listed in Table 1A-K of the San Francisco Building Code.
Meeting Date and Application Deadline 
The Board of Examiners meets to consider appeals as scheduled by the Secretary of the Board of Examiners. Requests for appeals to the Board of Examiners should allow at least three weeks before a hearing will be held.
Agenda Posting and Meeting Notification
DBI will send the appellant an agenda and a notification of a scheduled hearing at least ten days before the meeting. DBI will post the agenda at the location of the meeting and at the main branch of the San Francisco Public Library at least 72 hours before the hearing. All meetings are open to the public.
Unless otherwise noticed, the public meetings are held in the evenings at:
	Department of Building Inspection
	1660 Mission Street, Room 2001
	San Francisco, CA 94103
Hearing Procedures 
Prior to the hearing, the Director of the Department of Building Inspection and the Fire Marshal will review the materials submitted by the appellant and will separately submit recommendations for disposition of the appeal to the Board of Examiners. 
At the hearing, representatives of the Department of Building Inspection and the Fire Department will introduce the case to the Board of Examiners and present their recommendations. The appellant may then present their argument. The appellant may include the testimony of recognized experts to substantiate their petition. 
The Board of Examiners will render a decision at the public hearing, or may continue the case to the next meeting pending submittal of additional data or clarification. When the Board of Examiners arrives at a conclusion, a resolution called a "Notice of Decision" detailing the decision and recommendation will be prepared by the Secretary of the Board of Examiners, filed with the Director of the Department of Building Inspection. A copy of the "Notice of Decision" will be mailed to the appellant. The Secretary of the Board of Examiners will prepare official meeting minutes for approval at the next meeting. It is recommended that the applicant attach a copy of the "Notice of Decision" to any related permit application.
The Notice of Decision shall be microfilmed as part of the official records for the property.
Rehearing
A rehearing may be requested by any party when there is substantial new evidence which could not have been submitted at the time of the original hearing. Upon approval of a request for rehearing by the Board of Examiner, a date of a rehearing will be set.
Appeals
Where appellants do not agree with the decision of the Board of Examiners regarding a variance from requirements of the codes or where the appellants are denied the use of a new material, method or type of construction, the appellant may appeal the Board of Examiner's decision to the Building Inspection Commission.
Originally signed by:
Frank Y. Chiu, October 3, 2002  	Director
Department of Building Inspection
Gary Massetani, October 9, 2002	Fire Marshal
San Francisco Fire Department
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002
Attachments:	Diagram AB-042
		Board of Examiners Appeals Process Form AB-042 Board of Examiners Request for Hearing
AB-043  Ventilation of Public Spaces in Group R Occupancies
NO. AB-043	:DATE	:September 18, 2002 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references.)SUBJECT	:Plan Review; Permit ProcessTITLE	:Ventilation of Public Spaces in Group R OccupanciesPURPOSE	:To provide guidelines for determining which public spaces may require ventilation, and to describe acceptable examples of providing ventilation to these spaces.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code Section 1203.4
2013 San Francisco Housing Code Sections Section 504(d), 1001(a) and 1001(b)8
California Health and Safety Code, Division 13, Part 1.5, Section 17920.3 (State Housing Law)
2013 San Francisco Mechanical Code Sections 402 and 403.DISCUSSION	:The San Francisco Housing Code (SFHC) and the San Francisco Building Code (SFBC) requires a minimum level of ventilation in the public circulation spaces of Group R Occupancies. San Francisco’s deep and narrow lots coupled with a tradition of property line-to-property line construction often results in multifamily residential buildings with long hallways that have limited access to exterior openings. With little or no ventilation available to these hallways and other public spaces such as stairways and lobbies, the air can become stagnant and may retain cooking or tobacco odors. 
The intent of the California Building Code (CBC) Section 1203.4 is to assure adequate ventilation of Group R Occupancies. The intent of the San Francisco amendment to Section 1203.4 is to assure adequate ventilation of all public circulation spaces, particularly those which have directly-communicating openings into adjoining dwelling units or habitable spaces. This includes enclosed stairways and vestibules which also have entry doors to dwelling units or other habitable spaces. Pressurized stair enclosures need not be ventilated.
The following are acceptable means of providing ventilation:
	1.	Operable windows with an openable area of not less than 1/25 of the floor area of the area ventilated with a minimum of 4 square feet (0.37 m2). The windows shall open directly onto a public way or a yard or a court when permitted by Table 705.8. See SFBC Section 1206 for minimum sizes of yards and courts adjacent to exterior openings that provide natural ventilation.
	2.	Skylights with an openable area of not less than 1/25 of the floor area of the area ventilated with a minimum of 4 square feet (37 m2). The skylight shall be fixed open or shall be provided with an approved opening device.
	3.	Operable or fixed louvers with a net effective area of not less than 1/25 of the floor area of the area ventilated with a minimum of 4 square feet (0.37 m2). The operable louver shall be provided with an approved operating device.
	4.	Exterior openings set with screens, bars or grilles providing a net free (effective) area of not less than 1/25 of the floor area of the area ventilated with a minimum of 4 square feet (0.37 m2). 
	5.	Wind-operated turbines may be used in lieu of natural ventilation to provide a minimum 2 complete air changes per hour throughout the public circulation space with a minimum of 15 cubic feet per minute (7L/s) of outside air per occupant during such time as the building is occupied. Provide a make-up air inlet at a location that will not result in a short- circuiting of air flow, or where it will pick up objectionable odors, fumes or flammable vapors. For calculating ventilation, the minimum average wind speed shall be 7.5 miles per hour. [Based upon information from the National Climate Data Center, the lowest average wind speed in San Francisco is 6.7 mph in May.]
	6.	Mechanical ventilation and exhaust designed to operate continuously and capable of providing not less than that required by San Francisco Mechanical Code Section 403 throughout the public circulation space during such time as the building is occupied. Provide a make-up air inlet at a location that will not result in a short-circuiting of air flow, or where it will pick up objectionable odors, fumes or flammable vapors.
When natural or mechanical ventilation methods as described above are not feasible, the applicant may present an alternate means of providing ventilation for consideration by the building official.
When required by SFBC Sections 713 and 716 provide smoke and/or fire dampers at penetrations of fire-rated assemblies. Comply with requirements of San Francisco Mechanical Code when locating ventilation openings near exhaust outlets, vent or chimney terminations.
Refer to the San Francisco Housing Code for maintenance of natural and mechanical ventilation systems in existing (prior to January 1, 2011) Group R, Division 1 & 2 Occupancies.
Signed by: Frank Y Chiu, October 3, 2002 Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002
AB-046  Special Inspection and Structural Observation Procedures
NO. AB-046	:DATE	:September 18, 2002 (Updated 01/01/ 14 for code references.)SUBJECT	:Permit Process; InspectionTITLE	:Special Inspection and Structural Observation ProceduresPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to describe the procedures to be used in the administration and enforcement of special inspection and structural observation requirements of the San Francisco Building Code. It is intended as an aid for design professionals in their preparation of inspection and observation programs. It provides information for building owners, architects and engineers, contractors, and special inspection agencies about their responsibilities regarding special inspection and structural observation and includes standardized forms and formats applicable to these functions.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 108A.4, Inspections, General
- Chapter 17, Structural Tests and Inspections 
ASTM E329-07. Standard Specification for Agencies Engaged in Construction
I.	DEFINITIONS
	A.	Special Inspection
	Special Inspection is the monitoring of the materials and workmanship that are critical to the integrity of building structures or are otherwise required for public safety. Special inspection is intended to assure that the approved plans and specifications are being followed and that relevant codes and ordinances are being observed. The special inspection process is in addition to the regular inspections conducted by Department of Building Inspection building inspectors and by the engineer or architect of record. The special inspectors furnish continuous or periodic inspection as required by the San Francisco Building Code (SFBC).
	Good communication between the special inspector and the designers, contractor, and building department is essential to project quality assurance.
	B.	Structural Observation
	Structural Observation is visual observation of the structural system, for general conformance with the approved plans and specifications, at significant construction stages and at completion of the structural system, as required by SFBC Section 1704.5. Structural observation does not include or waive the responsibility for the inspections required by Section 108A, 1704, 1705 or other sections of this code. [SFBC Sec. 202]
II	DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES RESPONSIBLE FOR SPECIAL INSPECTION PROGRAM AND STRUCTURAL OBSERVATION PROGRAM
	A.	Duties and Responsibilities of the Project Owner
		1.	The project owner, or the owner’s agent, is responsible for funding special inspection services.
		2.	The owner, or the owner’s agent, shall employ the engineer or architect responsible for the structural design, or another engineer or architect designated by the engineer or architect responsible for the structural design, to perform structural observation as defined in SFBC Section 202.
		3.	Before final building inspection, the owner, or the owner’s agent, shall submit to DBI final compliance reports covering each item requiring special inspection and structural observation. Final reports shall be wet signed and stamped by the responsible engineer of the special inspection agency, geotechnical firm, engineer or architect of record - as appropriate to the type of report. See Exhibit No. 2, Special Inspection Final Compliance Report and Exhibit No. 3, Structural Observation Final Compliance Report.
	B.	Duties and Responsibilities of the Engineer of Record
	The Engineer of Record (or Architect of Record) has many duties and responsibilities related to special inspection and structural observation activities. These include the following:
		1.	Identify the need for special inspection and structural observation services
		The project plans that are submitted to the Building Official shall clearly indicate the design parameters and material selection. The Engineer of Record shall analyze the critical elements of the design and determine where special inspection and structural observation are required, in accordance with SFBC Sections 1704 and 1705. The Engineer of Record shall submit the Special Inspection and Structural Observation Form (Exhibit No. 1) to DBI. The Engineer of Record shall also indicate the required special inspection and structural observation requirements on the submitted drawings. This can be accomplished by including a copy of the form on the drawings, or by including the same information on the drawings in another manner.
		2.	Respond to field discrepancies
		The Engineer of Record is instrumental in the process of deficiency correction. The engineer or architect of record is responsible for any design changes in addition to acknowledgment and approval of shop drawings, which may detail structural information, and for submission of such changes to DBI for approval.
		3.	Prepare final compliance report
		The Engineer of Record prepares an overall final compliance report for submittal to DBI, stating that all items requiring special inspection and structural observation were performed in accordance with the approved plans, specifications, and applicable workmanship provisions of the SFBC. See Exhibit No. 2, Special Inspection Final Compliance Report and Exhibit No. 3, Structural Observation Final Compliance Report.
	C.	Duties and responsibilities of the engineer responsible for the structural observation program
	Observed deficiencies shall be reported in writing to the owner’s representative, special inspector, contractor and the Director. The structural observer shall submit to the Director a written statement declaring that the site visits have been made and identifying any reported deficiencies that, to the best of the structural observer’s knowledge, have not been resolved. See Exhibit No. 3 - Structural Observation Final Compliance Report.
	D.	Duties and Responsibilities of the Special Inspector
	The special inspectors are individuals with highly developed, specialized skills who observe those critical building or structural features which they are qualified to inspect. Duties of the special inspectors and/or inspection agencies include the following:
		1.	Observe all work for which they are responsible
		Special inspectors shall inspect all work for conformance with the Department of Building Inspection approved drawings and specifications and applicable provisions of the code.
		2.	Provide timely reports
		The special inspector should complete written inspection reports for each inspection visit and provide the reports in a timely manner. The special inspector or inspection agency shall furnish these reports directly to the building official, engineer or architect of record and to the general contractor. Special inspectors shall bring all non- conforming items to the immediate attention of the contractor. If any such item is not resolved in a timely manner or is about to be incorporated in the work, the engineer or architect of record and the building official shall be notified immediately. See Exhibit Nos. 5 to 8.
		3.	Respond to field discrepancies
		Material and design discrepancies shall be brought to the attention of the Engineer of Record and the Building Official.
		4.	Submit a final signed report
		Special inspectors or inspection agencies shall submit a final report (signed by the registered engineer or licensed architect who is responsible for the special inspection) to the Department of Building Inspection stating that all items requiring special inspection and testing were constructed, to the best of their knowledge, in conformance with the approved design drawings, specifications, approved change order and the applicable provisions of the code. See Exhibit No. 2 - Special Inspection Final Compliance Report.
	E.	Duties and Responsibilities of the Director
		1.	Review and examine plans for compliance
		The Director is charged with the legal authority to review the plans for compliance with the code requirements, including special inspection and structural observation requirements.
		2.	Monitor the special inspection and structural observation activities
		The Director shall monitor the job site to see that special inspection and structural observation is being performed and that an adequate number of special inspection staff is present depending upon the extent and complexity of the project.
		3.	Review inspection reports
		The Director receives, reviews and makes the inspection reports part of the inspection records.
		4.	Review the final report
		The Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued until the final report has been received and approved by the Director.
	F.	Duties and Responsibilities of the Contractor
	The contractor’s duties include the following:
		1.	Notify the special inspector
		The contractor is responsible for notifying the special inspector or agency regarding special inspections required by DBI. Adequate notice shall be provided so that the special inspector has time to become familiar with the project.
		2.	Provide access to approved plans
		The contractor is responsible for providing the special inspector with access to approved plans at the job site.
		3.	Retain special inspection records
		The contractor is responsible for retaining at the job site all special inspection records submitted by the special inspector, and providing these records for review by the Department of Building Inspection inspector upon request.
III	SPECIAL INSPECTOR QUALIFICATIONS: [SFBC Sec. 1704]
The San Francisco Department of Building Inspection will accept special inspection and testing agencies working on projects in San Francisco who are recognized by the Special Inspection Joint Review Committee of participating Bay Area jurisdictions, which reviews the qualifications of inspection and testing agencies including conformance with ASTM E329 and inspector certification and experience criteria. The current list of the Joint Review Committee’s Recognized Special Inspection and Testing Agencies is available from DBI.
Alternatively, special inspectors shall be one of the following:
	A.	A qualified person employed by an approved inspection and testing agency conforming insofar as applicable to the requirements of ASTM E329.
	Except for testing of materials and reporting of numerical results from such tests, the inspector shall work under the general supervision of a registered Civil Engineer, and all reports and certification of compliance must be signed by the engineer.
	B.	A registered Civil Engineer or licensed Architect who can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that he or she has the experience and expertise to qualify as a special inspector for the specific type of inspection work, and has appropriate equipment to conduct such inspections and tests.
	Note:  The above applies to any engineer or architect who is not the engineer or architect of record for the project. Qualifications must be approved by the Director.
	C.	For life-safety provisions required by SFBC Section 403, construction review and validation testing shall be performed by, or under the supervision of a registered Electrical or Mechanical Engineer responsible for those areas of work involving his or her design. All reports on construction review and testing, and certification of compliance and full operational status, shall be signed by the engineer and endorsed by the design professional of record for the building. The design professional of record shall bear overall responsibility for the proper installation and testing of the life-safety system. When approved by the Director this responsibility may be borne by an approved independent testing agency.
	D.	The Engineer (or Architect) of Record.
	Note:  The engineer who prepared the geotechnical report may be considered the engineer of record for the geotechnical work requiring special inspection.
	E.	For plant fabrication of precast concrete elements, a registered civil engineer who supervises all phases of quality control work. The registered civil engineer shall be subject to the approval of the Director.
IV	SPECIAL INSPECTION AND STRUCTURAL OBSERVATION OPERATIONAL PROCEDURE WITHIN DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING INSPECTION
	A.	Plan Review Services (PRS) – Plan Check Engineers/Inspectors
		1.	Review the Special Inspection and Structural Observation Form. Usually the engineer or architect of record prepares the form. See Exhibit No. 1, Special Inspection and Structural Observation Form. Verify special inspection and structural observation items.
		2.	Plan checker affixes the “SPECIAL INSPECTION” stamp on the back of the application when signing that permit is approved for issuance. The plan checker makes one copy of the Special Inspection and Structural Observation Form and attaches it to the applicant’s copy of the permit application, then gives the original to the Special Inspection Services staff.
		3.	Special Inspection Services Staff set up the special inspection file and enters the types of special inspection and structural observation required for the project in the computer record for the permit application.
		4.	During construction, DBI Special Inspection Services Staff distribute special inspection progress reports to assigned staff. If reports indicate problems that need to be brought to the attention of the district building inspector, Special Inspection Services Staff forwards a copy of the report to the appropriate district building inspector. District building inspector will notify the contractor who in turn shall notify the engineer of record to resolve the field problems. Resolution reports shall be submitted to PRS for review and file. See Exhibit No. 4, Special Inspection/Structural Observation Transmittal Letter.
		5.	When final reports are submitted, DBI staff will review for final compliance. If documentation is not sufficient, DBI staff will notify the Engineer of Record regarding missing items. If compliance has been verified, DBI staff signs and dates Special Inspection and Structural Observation Program form.
		6.	DBI staff enters final compliance approval in the computer by entering the approval date and their name for each item requiring special inspection.
		7.	DBI staff sends completed special inspection and structural observation files quarterly to DBI storage.
		8.	For permits issued over the counter when special inspection is required, DBI staff will make copy of the Special Inspection form and distribute as follows:
			a.	One copy to applicant
			b.	Original to DBI staff with the approval date.
	B.	Central Permit Bureau (CPB)
	Staff shall give one copy of the approved Special Inspection to applicant together with the approved drawings.
	C.	Building Inspection Division (BID)
		1.	Special Inspector shall be identified to the District Building Inspector prior to start of the work for which special inspection is required. See Exhibit No. 1, Notice – Special Inspection Requirements and Structural Observation Requirements.
		2.	District building inspectors monitor the special inspection activities at the project site. In the event that district building inspectors discover that required special inspection is not being performed, or is not in compliance with the approved plans, they are authorized to suspend or stop the progress of the work.
Originally signed by:
Frank Y. Chiu, Director
Department of Building Inspection
October 3, 2002
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on September 18, 2002
Attachments (Exhibits):
1.	Special Inspection and Structural Observation Requirements
2.	Special Inspection Final Compliance Report
3.	Structural Observation Final Compliance Report
4.	Special Inspection/Structural Observation Transmittal Letter
5.	Special Inspection Record
6.	Special Inspection Daily Report
7.	Special Inspection Weekly Report
8.	Special Inspection Discrepancy Notice
9.	Sample matrix
10.	Agency Summary and Letter of Agreement
11.	Waiver Agreement
12.	Responsible Engineer’s Statement of Agreement
AB-047  Specific Submittal Criteria for Reports, Special Inspections and Final Acceptance Testing of Smoke Control Systems
NO. AB-047	:DATE	:41063SUBJECT	:Smoke Control SystemsTITLE	:Specific Submittal Criteria for Reports, Special Inspections and Final Acceptance Testing of Smoke Control Systems.PURPOSE	:This Administrative Bulletin outlines the minimum requirements for smoke control systems in the City and County of San Francisco; it covers (1) design criteria, (2) required submittals and documentation. This Administrative Bulletin applies to both new and existing smoke control systems.REFERENCES	:2010 California Building Code Section 909
2010 California Fire Code Section 909
1.	GENERAL
	a.	Alternate Methods of Smoke Control
2.	SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEM DESIGNERS QUALIFICATIONS
3.	RESPONSIBILITIES
4.	SUBMITTALS FOR SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS
	a.	General
	b.	Smoke Control Report
	c.	Architectural Drawings
	d.	Mechanical Permit Drawings
	e.	Electrical Permit Drawings
	f.	Sprinkler System Permit Drawings
	g.	Fire Alarm System Permit Drawings
	h.	Smoke Control Systems Designed Per the 1995, 1998, 2001, 2007 CBC/SFBC
	i.	Smoke Control Systems Designed Per the 1992 CBC/SFBC or Earlier
5.	SPECIAL INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS
	a.	Special Inspector
	b.	Inspection and Test Process
	c.	Submittals
	d.	New and Modified Smoke Control Systems
6.	SPECIAL INSPECTION QUALIFICATIONS
	a.	Special Inspector
	b.	Testing Agencies
7.	SPECIAL INSPECTION SUBMITTALS FOR SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS
	a.	Special Inspection Program
	b.	Documentation to Support Final Inspection by DBI/SFFD
	c.	Final Report for Special Inspection and Testing (Commissioning Report for CFO)
8.	INSPECTION AND TESTING OF SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS
	a.	General
	b.	SF Inspection and Testing Requirements
9.	REFERENCED PUBLICATIONS
AB-047 Attachment 1: Signature Page
AB-047 Attachment 2: Special Inspection and Testing Summary Checklist
AB-047 Attachment 3: Special Inspection and Final Report
1.	GENERAL
	a.	Alternate Methods of Smoke Control
		1.	Equivalent/Alternate methods should be pre-approved by DBI/SFFD. See DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-005 for information regarding local equivalencies and DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-028 for information regarding pre-application or pre-addendum meetings. Examples of alternate methods are Natural Ventilation (not applicable to 909.20.3; Smoke proof enclosures), Garage CO Exhaust. Additional justification and analyses are required to show the method provides an equivalent level of life-safety to prescribed methods; typically consisting of providing documentation and supporting calculations.
2.	SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEM DESIGNERS QUALIFICATIONS
	a.	The building owner shall engage an architect, mechanical engineer and electrical engineer as architect and engineers-of-record, to prepare Smoke Control System design documents [SFBC 106A.3.4]. All design professionals shall be licensed in the State of California [CBC 202]. The architect and engineers-of-record shall be responsible for reviewing and coordinating all submittal documents, including reports and deferred submittals, for compatibility with the building design [SFBC 106A.3.4].
		If a smoke control consultant is engaged, this person shall be experienced in smoke control systems and shall be a fire protection engineer or mechanical engineer licensed in the State of California.
	b.	When peer review is required by DBI/SFFD, the reviewer shall be approved by DBI/SFFD, and engaged by the owner or owner’s agent.
3.	RESPONSIBILITIES
	a.	Project Owner
		1.	Designate Responsible Design Professionals and Smoke Control Report Author
		2.	Authorize Peer Review (where applicable)
		3.	Contract development and implementation of Special Inspection Program
		4.	Contract Air Balancer and Special Inspector(s)
		5.	Coordinate Document Submittals:
			i.	Alternate materials and methods requests
			ii.	Preliminary Smoke Control Report
			iii.	Final Smoke Control Report (including amendments)
			iv.	Special Inspection Proposal for Smoke Control
			v.	Final Special Inspection Report
		6.	Coordinate Plan Submittals
			i.	Site Plan
			ii.	Architectural Plan, including smoke barrier plan
			iii.	MEP Plans
			iv.	Fire Alarm Plans including Control Diagrams and Smoke Control Panel Layout
			v.	Sprinkler Plans
	b.	Design Professionals
		1.	Architect of Record
			i.	Architectural Design and Smoke Barrier Plans in accordance with the smoke control report.
			ii.	Must review architectural submittals by others to assure that smoke control system is coordinated into design.
			iii.	Inspect construction, and when satisfied that the design intent has been achieved, the architect shall seal, sign, and date the special inspection report in designated area.
		2.	Mechanical Engineer of Record
			i.	Mechanical Design in accordance with smoke control report and code requirements.
			ii.	Must review mechanical, fire alarm, sprinkler submittals by others to assure that smoke control system is coordinated into design.
			iii.	Inspect construction, and when satisfied that the design intent has been achieved, the mechanical engineer of record shall seal, sign, and date the special inspection report in designated area.
		3.	Electrical Engineer of Record
			i.	Electrical Design in accordance with smoke control report and code requirements.
			ii.	Must review electrical and fire alarm submittals by others to assure that smoke control system coordinated into design.
			iii.	Inspect construction, and when satisfied that the design intent has been achieved, the electrical engineer of record shall seal, sign, and date the special inspection report in designated area.
	c.	Smoke Control Report Author
		1.	Prepare Preliminary Smoke Control Report in accordance with architectural design.
		2.	Prepare Final Smoke Control Report (including amendments).
		3.	Establish smoke control system design, and pass/fail criteria; including necessary weather conditions acceptable during commissioning testing without further review.
		4.	Communicate with Peer Reviewer (where applicable), Fire Department, Department of Building Inspection during review and inspection phases.
	d.	Contractor
		1.	Provide inspection/testing access prior to concealment of ductwork, wiring, piping, etc.
		2.	Marking and identification of all smoke control components.
		3.	Pre-testing of all equipment and systems prior to special inspection.
		4.	Coordinate special inspection and AHJ testing.
	e.	Department of Building Inspection
		1.	Review Plans and Submittals.
		2.	Mandate Peer Review (when necessary).
		3.	Perform field inspections.
		4.	Review special inspection report.
		5.	Provide Certificate of Final Completion when work is completed.
		6.	Custodian of Records (microfilm).
	f.	Fire Department
		1.	Review Plans and Submittals.
		2.	Mandate peer review (when necessary).
		3.	Approval of Preliminary Smoke Control Concept and Final Smoke Control Report and Special Inspection Program.
		4.	Authorize fabrication of smoke control panel after approval.
		5.	Perform field inspections/witness testing and verify compliance with approved plans and documents.
		6.	Review of final special inspection report by Fire Plan Check.
		7.	Communication of deficiencies and required corrections with Plan Check, field inspectors, special inspectors, and design professionals.
		8.	Provide approval documentation when work is complete.
	g.	Special Inspector or Special Inspection Agencies
		1.	Develop special inspection procedure/program (written proposal).
		2.	Prepare special inspection report.
		3.	Witness test and document all devices affecting smoke control system.
		4.	Inspect and document all architectural features affecting smoke control design.
		5.	Where deficiencies are noted during a site visit prepare and post deficiency reports with the permit posted at the job site and notify the contractor and responsible design professionals of corrections required [CBC 1704.1.2].
	h.	Air Balancer
		1.	Perform all required testing with properly calibrated instruments.
		2.	Document all testing and inspection results and provide to Special Inspector(s).
4.	SUBMITTALS FOR SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS
	a.	General
		1.	Submit two sets of the following: all reports in booklet format (e.g. spiral bound), 8-1/2 × 11 sheets; drawings, minimum 11 × 17 sheets. One set of each will be returned when approved. Reports shall be accompanied by two sets of CD-Rs with a copy of the report in PDF format including all appendices, diagrams, and all supporting calculation files (with all supporting design scenarios and data files) “burned” onto the CDs. Each CD shall be in a slim plastic “jewel case” with a clear cover. The permit application number, report title, project name and address, CD-R files, report date, and revision number shall be clearly labeled on the CD-R.
		2.	Construction documents shall include sufficient information and detail to adequately describe the design and properly facilitate installation.
		3.	Three types of reports are required: (1) the Smoke Control Report, (2) Special Inspection Program, and (3) Special Inspection and Testing Final Report. Approval of the Smoke Control Report and Special Inspection Program are required before the Mechanical Permit is issued. Provide the (3) Final Testing Report [CBC 909.18.8.3] and Identification and Documentation [909.18.9] to DBI/SFFD at project completion.
		4.	A complete Special Inspection Program with sample reports shall be submitted with the mechanical plans to DBI/SFFD for review and approval prior to issuance of the mechanical permit. Refer to Special Inspection Program requirements section.
	b.	Smoke Control Report
		1.	A written report, titled Smoke Control Report, shall be authored by the smoke control consultant or the mechanical engineer-of-record and submitted to DBI/SFFD for review and approval. The Smoke Control Report is typically a multi-phased approval process and submitted as follows:
			i.	For site permit projects submit a preliminary Smoke Control Report with the site permit drawings. The preliminary Smoke Control Report is generally conceptual in nature, but still includes all aspects required in the final report, including AB-047 Signature Page-attachment 1, less the specific calculations, supporting data, and diagrams. The acceptance of the preliminary Smoke Control Report does not constitute final approval by SFFD or DBI. Submit the Smoke Control Report as part of the review and approval process of the Architectural, Mechanical, and Electrical addendum drawings.
			ii.	For all projects without a site permit, submit the complete Smoke Control Report with the Architectural drawings (for reference). Submit the Smoke Control Report and Special Inspection Program with the Mechanical, and Electrical drawings, as part of the drawings’ review and approval process.
			iii.	If the Smoke Control Report is revised after approval by DBI/SFFD, the revised report shall be resubmitted with all items required and provided in the original submittal and revised plans showing applicable changes.
		2.	The Smoke Control Report shall include the following information:
			i.	Cover Page:  Provide a cover page showing the facility name, address, revision number, permit application and revision numbers, date of submittal and preparer.
			ii.	Signature Page:  Provide a completed signature page with final report; AB-047 attachment 1.
			iii.	Code References:  Provide reference to and include copies in appendices of all approved alternate means and methods, and pre-application agreements relating to smoke control. List all applicable codes standards including editions, approved equivalencies, and pre-application agreements for the project.
			iv.	Building Description:  Provide a general narrative overview of the building and its uses. Include the building height, number of stories, basement levels, gross floor area, types of occupancies and type(s) of construction, approved variances and equivalencies. Identify the architectural features that affect smoke control design and life-safety:  size of atriums, location of fire/smoke barriers, fire- safeing, engineering judgments, make-up air openings, operable windows, vents, floor and wall openings, door closers, ceiling heights, pressurized and non-pressurized stair enclosures, open stairs, shafts used as ducts, duct construction and material, exiting, horizontal exits, heights and types of surrounding structures/buildings, Elevators for Firefighters use.
			v.	Fire suppression systems:  Provide a concise narrative overview of the fire suppression system(s). Identify the types of systems and areas served (zoning), major equipment, design criteria and basic operation. Identify the type, location and quantity of flammable or combustible fuel, and hazardous/toxic materials, if any.
			vi.	HVAC and ventilation systems:  Provide a concise narrative overview of the HVAC systems whether or not used for smoke control. Identify the types of systems and areas served (zoning), major equipment, fire and smoke dampers type and class including link temperatures, design objectives and basic operation. Identify where fire dampers have actuating devices with increased operating temperatures (not more than 350°F) due to smoke control [CBC 716.3.3.1] and specify the actuating temperatures for each type of fire damper. Identify where fire/smoke dampers are not provided due to smoke control [CBC 716.2.1; 716.5.3, #1.3, #4]. Identify where fire/smoke dampers are not provided at shafts due to 22-inch sub-ducts and continuously operating exhaust fans connected to the standby power system [CBC 716.5.3, #1.1, #2.2, #2.3].
			vii.	Power supply systems:  Provide a concise narrative overview of the primary and standby power sources for the smoke control systems. Include the locations of the standby power source, transfer switches, normal power transformers and switchgear, and describe the independent routing of the normal and standby power distribution systems [CBC 909.11]. Identify the type, location and quantity of flammable or combustible fuel, if any. Address the need for uninterruptible power supplies and power surge protectors [CBC 909.11.1]. Provide a table to indicate all equipment required to be connected to emergency power. Specify the required duration the Stand-by/Secondary Power supply is required to operate the Smoke Management System [909.4.6]. Note emergency power is usually required for scavenger fans.
			viii.	Fire alarm, detection and control systems:  Provide a concise narrative overview of the fire alarm, detection and control systems as they relate to the smoke control system. Include the building management system (BMS) where used for or interconnected to the smoke control system. BMS systems shall be listed for smoke control use. Identify the smoke control components that must be monitored for proper operation (supervised end-to-end) and the method of supervision [CBC 909.12]. Address the listing of fire detection and control systems (UL category UUKL) including the building management system where used for smoke control [CBC 909.12].
				a.	Damper supervision and control at the Firefighters Control Panel is required for all active- passive zone boundaries, e.g. corridor to residential units, group control and interlocking on fans with dampers is allowed. The minimum acceptable supervision and control required will indicate proper damper operation and fault condition for smoke control operation, i.e. open and closed. These dampers shall be included in the UUKL Self-Test and fail- safe in the closed position [CBC 909].
				b.	Fan supervision and control at the Firefighters Control Panel is required for all fans used in the smoke control system [CBC 909.16]. Each fan and damper shall have a separate annunciator lights and controls, unless otherwise approved. Power (amperage and voltage) shall be supervised at the downstream side of the electrical disconnects [CBC 909.12] and a positive means of verifying airflow shall be provided (pressure switch/airflow sensor) [NFPA 92A 6.4.3.7.7] at each fan and indicated on the Firefighters Control Panel as a fault condition if failure occurs. Supervision and control of additional fans shall be required in cases where an alternate/equivalent method is approved, e.g. where garage CO exhaust is utilized for smoke control, and use of supply fans are necessary for adequate smoke exhausting.
			ix.	Firefighters Control Panel. Include a narrative description of the Firefighters Control panel. Refer to the Fire Alarm Plan submittal section for additional information.
			x.	Smoke Control/Management Systems. Provide a concise conceptual narrative overview of the smoke control/management systems: concepts, approaches, and design objectives, types of systems, zoning, major equipment, analysis methods, and basic operation and activation sequences.
			xi.	As applicable provide a detailed description of each smoke control zone including: occupancy; fire suppression and fire alarm systems, including specific design criteria required by the smoke control system; construction type, ratings and leakage values; door and window types, ratings, leakage values, and closing methods; operable and fixed exterior openings; expected fire size/loads, combustible materials [CFC]; means of egress; method(s) of smoke control; analyses methods, with referenced equations for hand calculations, name and version of software; design scenarios addressed, including specific weather data used for each scenario; summary of results including but not limited to tenability, timed egress, i.e. ASET vs. RESET; sprinkler type and activation times; activation methods.
			xii.	Provide small-scale drawings, 11 × 17 minimum, showing the location of all smoke zones, including passive smoke zones; include the drawings as PDF files on the required CD-R.
			xiii.	Provide rational analyses of the design; address the stack effect, temperature effect of the fire, wind, HVAC interactions, climate and minimum duration of operation [CBC 909.4.4, 909.4.5, 909.10].
		3.	For smoke control systems using the passive method, identify the total leakage area for typical smoke barriers [CBC 909.5.1].
		4.	Address the probable temperatures to which fans, dampers and ducts may be exposed in a fire [CBC 909.10].
		5.	Identify smoke zone openings which must be open or closed for proper operation, such as doors, windows, dampers and louvers; identify smoke zone openings that are supervised in the open and/or closed positions.
		6.	Address the piston effect of elevators. Additionally, for single car elevator shaft provide calculations to show the smoke control system is not overcome by the piston effect.
		7.	Design Fundamentals; Where applicable the following Guidelines shall apply.
			i.	Design Fire:
				a.	A design fire engineering analysis shall be provided in the smoke control report [909.9]. Address the fuel characteristics (e.g. toxicity, particulate yield, and growth rate), fuel spacing and configurations (radiant heat), heat-release assumptions (HRR), and sprinkler effectiveness assumptions. Justify all assumptions and performance-based approaches. Identify the computer program(s) and version(s) used, if any. Include calculations and an input and output summary for each computer analysis design case.
				b.	Specify the maximum ceiling jet temperatures and time lag expected before sprinkler activation. Provide supporting calculations.
			ii.	Pressurization Method:
				a.	Stairway pressurization systems:  Comply with CBC 909.20 to 909.20.4 and NFPA 92A 5.34. Use of vestibule transfer grills is not acceptable except for pressurization of large stairway transfer passageways.
				b.	Pressurization calculations may be based on maximum leakage values provided in the CBC [CBC 909.5.] However, architectural specifications for construction leakage may be used if documented in report.
				c.	A minimum Pressure differential of 0.05-water gauge is required across all smoke barriers in fully sprinklered buildings. Un-sprinklered buildings shall comply with CBC 909.6.1 for pressure differentials. [CBC 909.6, 909.6.1].
				d.	Computer calculations shall be provided for all buildings utilizing a multizone model program that is valid for the application, e.g. CONTAM. State all variables used/required in the calculations and additional modifiers are available and used in the calculations, e.g. Wind Tunnel data, provide information in the report. Hand calculations may be provided and/or required to verify computer calculations.
				e.	Base calculations input data on 1 percent wind speeds and dry bulb temperatures of 99.6 and 0.4 percent (NFPA 92A, A.4.6.2). Include prevailing winds, summer and winter, and all other wind directions considered critical to demonstrate wind effects. Current wind data shall be obtained from a nationally recognized authority, e.g. ASHRAE, and included in the report. Use of site specific wind data is recommended.
				f.	All exterior openings and non-smoke management fans in smoke control zones and sub- zones that are operable in smoke control mode shall be included in the analysis in their normal position, e.g. windows, doors, scavenger fans, z-ducts and vents (NFPA 92A, 4.6.1, and 7.1.1.2).
				g.	For smoke control systems using the pressurization method, identify the minimum and maximum pressure differences across smoke zone boundaries (smoke barriers) separating smoke zones [CBC 909.6.1]. Include calculations for each smoke zone where appropriate. Analyses shall include all openings fixed in open position, and within reason openings expected to be opened, e.g. Z-ducts, operable windows and/or doors [NFPA 92A 7.1.1.2].
			iii.	Exhaust Method:  Typically used in large volume areas, e.g. atriums [CBC 909.8].
				a.	Where space is a simple geometry (no obstructions, simple air supply/makeup air and exhaust, symmetrical square construction) exhaust of smoke may be done using NFPA 92B algebraic calculations.
				b.	In spaces with complicated geometries and/or tenability is used as design criteria, CFD analysis may be required. A complicated geometry is where airflow is obstructed, multiple air supplies, or construction is asymmetrical.
				c.	All exterior openings and non-smoke management fans in smoke control zones and sub- zones that are operable in smoke control mode shall be included in the analysis, e.g. windows, doors, scavenger fans and vents.
			iv.	Natural Ventilation:
				a.	Designs that utilize natural ventilation (not applicable to 909.20.3; Smoke proof enclosures) in whole or part of the smoke management system will require CFD or physical (scale) model analysis.
				b.	The affect of outdoor wind, temperature, design fire size, and the surrounding structures are especially important in the design of natural ventilation smoke control. Multiple design scenarios that reflect a complete range of operating conditions are required to demonstrate the validity of the smoke control systems’ function.
				c.	Wind speeds shall range from zero to the 1 percent annual extreme. Include prevailing winds, summer and winter, and a minimum of 4 other wind directions considered critical to demonstrate wind affect at the required wind speeds. Current wind data shall be obtained from a nationally recognized authority, e.g. ASHRAE, and included in the report.
				d.	Ambient temperature used in calculations shall range from low to high annual extremes, dry bulb temperatures of 99.6 and 0.4 percent, as reported by the most current data obtained from a nationally recognized authority, e.g. ASHRAE.
				e.	For verification of commissioning and testing data provide design calculations for the temperature(s) and wind condition(s) experienced during the testing.
				f.	All openings in smoke control zones that are operable shall be included in the analysis, e.g. windows, doors, and vents. Separate design scenarios for each zone with open and openings closed shall be included.
			v.	Airflow Method:  Typically used in tunnels or spaces connected to large volume spaces to manage the flow of smoke from fires.
				a.	Simple geometrical spaces (no obstructions, simple air supply and exhaust, symmetrical smooth construction) the critical air velocity calculation required to prevent the backflow of smoke may be per NFPA 92B, section 5.5, Opposed Airflow and CBC 2010, Section 909.7.
				b.	In spaces with complicated geometry (rough, asymmetric construction) and/or where/when tenability is used as design criteria, CFD analysis is required. A complicated geometry is where airflow is obstructed, multiple air supplies, or construction is asymmetrical.
				c.	All openings in smoke control zones that are operable shall be included in the analysis, e.g. windows, doors, and vents. Separate design scenarios for each zone with open and openings closed shall be included.
			vi.	Tenability:  Tenability criteria shall be established based on approved documented studies. Items to be included, but not limited to, determining tenability criteria are the following:  temperature and humidity, visibility (KS3, light reflecting), toxicity assessment of combustion products and FED.
			vii.	Egress Analysis:  Timed egress analyses shall be based on CBC 909.4.6 (where duration of system is less than 20-minutes) based on documented methods as provided in the listed references. 
Calculation of Available Safe Egress Time (ASET) and Required Safe Egress Time (RSET) with a minimum safety factor of (1.5). ASET and RSET shall be calculated in phases/time segments: ignition-detection, detection-alarm, alarm-perception, perception-interpretation, interpretation- action, action-movement, and tenability limit only for ASET. Occupancy loads shall be determined by the CBC or actual occupant load, whichever is greater. Consideration shall be made for handicapped and disabled occupants by reduction of travel speeds and flow rates. Lastly, duration of the smoke management system operation shall be the code required minimum or the maximum RSET, whichever is greater.
	c.	Architectural Drawings
		1.	Include a compliance statement stamped and wet signed by the architect- of-record which states:
			“I have reviewed the Smoke Control Report and confirm the smoke management/control system elements shown on the drawings under my responsible charge comply with the Smoke Control Report by (REPORT AUTHOR) and (DATE OF REPORT).”
		2.	As part of the architectural drawings provide smoke barrier drawings showing the location of all smoke zones: delineate each zone as passive or active and provide a zone designation for each active zone. Additionally, show occupancies of each smoke zone and all openings required, e.g. doors required to open for make-up air. The zones and designations used in the architectural drawings shall correspond to zones and designations used in the smoke control report.
		3.	Provide sufficient detail in the drawings to support engineering calculations, e.g. leakage values for walls, ceilings, and doors; locations and heights of surrounding buildings; sizes and locations of make-up air openings; and smoke-barrier wall construction details.
	d.	Mechanical Permit Drawings
		1.	In addition to the information that is typically provided in mechanical drawings, provide the following information in the drawings:
			i.	Include a compliance statement stamped and wet signed by the mechanical engineer-of-record which states:  “I have reviewed the Smoke Control Report and confirm the smoke management/control system elements shown on the drawings under my responsible charge comply with the Smoke Control Report by (REPORT AUTHOR) and (DATE OF REPORT).”
			ii.	Submit approved architectural plans that show the location of all smoke zones, including passive smoke zones.
			iii.	Provide a schematic riser diagram of the smoke control/management systems.
			iv.	Provide a narrative summary and sequence of operations of the smoke control/management system operation.
			v.	Identify the major mechanical components used for smoke control in appropriate schedules. Include fans, drivers, variable frequency drives (VFDs) and their locations, and louver and damper operators. Indicate the minimum service factor for fan motors (1.15) and the minimum number of fan belts for belt-driven fans, and temperature rating of fans and ducts [CBC 909.10.5].
			vi.	Identify the ducts and shafts used for smoke control in the schematic riser diagrams and plan drawings. Indicate the minimum test pressure for ducts and shafts used for smoke control (1.5 times the maximum design pressure) [CBC 909.10.2]. All shafts shall be sheet metal lined, unless an alternate method is approved [CMC 602].
			vii.	For smoke control systems with variable frequency drives (VFDs), locate the VFDs outside the smoke zone they serve. Alternatively, protect VFDs within the smoke zone they serve from smoke and heat so they are capable of continued operation after detection of fire for at least 20 minutes or the time set by the required safe exiting time (1.5 times RSET), whichever is less [CBC 909.4.6.]  VFDs shall not serve more than one end device unless listed for smoke control service.
			viii.	For air-moving systems greater than 2,000 cfm, identify where automatic shutoffs are not provided due to smoke control [CMC 609 #4].
		2.	Prerequisites for a mechanical permit issuance:  Approved architectural plans, approved Smoke Control Report, and an approved Special Inspection Program.
	e.	Electrical Permit Drawings
		1.	In addition to the information that is typically provided in electrical drawings, include the following information in the drawings:
			i.	Include a compliance statement stamped and wet signed by the electrical engineer-of-record which states:
			“I have reviewed the Smoke Control Report and confirm the smoke management/control system elements shown on the drawings under my responsible charge comply with the Smoke Control Report by (REPORT AUTHOR) and (DATE OF REPORT).”
			ii.	Identify the major electrical components used for smoke control, including standby (or emergency) power source, transfer switches, and control system(s).
			iii.	Provide load calculations for the standby/emergency power source.
			iv.	Show the layout of the standby generator room (or other secondary power source). The standby generator and its transfer switches shall be in a separate room from the normal power transformers and switchgear [CBC 909.11, 909.11.1].
			v.	Show the routing and fire rating of the normal and standby power distribution systems. The normal and standby power systems shall be routed independently [CBC 909.11].
			vi.	Show the locations of the fire alarm control panel (FACP), firefighters’ smoke control panel (FSCP) and fire alarm annunciator(s).
			vii.	Provide a 1-line diagram showing feeder conductor sizes, overcurrent protection sizes, ampacity calculations, and the connected loads on each feeder supplied by the standby (or emergency) power source [CEC 215-5, 310, 700-5, 701-6].
			viii.	For high-rise buildings, show the layout of the Fire Command Center (Central Control Station). See CBC 403.4.5, and 911, for required equipment and furnishings.
			ix.	For buildings with passive smoke zones, connect the motor operators for smoke dampers to the building power panel and emergency/standby power – not the tenant space power panels.
	f.	Sprinkler System Permit Drawings
		1.	Sprinkler system submittals shall be in accordance with SFFD Administrative Bulletin AB 2.04, Fire Sprinkler Submittals.
		2.	In addition to the information that is typically provided in sprinkler system permit drawings, include the following information in the drawings:
			i.	The mechanical engineer-of-record shall review the sprinkler system permit documents for conformance with the smoke control report, prior to submittal to DBI/SFFD and shall so indicate by stamping “Reviewed for Smoke Control Design Compliance, (REPORT AUTHOR) and (DATE OF REPORT)” and signing on each drawing and document.
			ii.	For atriums, provide separate sprinkler zones for the atrium and non-atrium spaces [CBC 909.12.3].
			iii.	For malls, provide separate sprinkler zones for mall and tenant spaces [CBC 402.9, 909.12.3].
			iv.	High-rise buildings with multiple active zones: each zone shall have 2 supplies.
	g.	Fire Alarm System Permit Drawings
		1.	Fire alarm submittals shall be in accordance with SFFD Administrative Bulletin AB 2.01, Fire Alarm Submittals.
		2.	In addition to the information that is typically provided in fire alarm system permit drawings, include the following information in the drawings:
			i.	The mechanical engineer-of-record and electrical engineer-of- record shall review the sprinkler system permit documents for conformance with the smoke control report, prior to submittal to DBI/SFFD and each engineer shall so indicate by stamping “Reviewed for Smoke Control Design Compliance, (REPORT AUTHOR) and (DATE OF REPORT)” and signing on each drawing and document.
			ii.	Provide a detailed fire alarm/smoke control matrix.
				a.	Show every fire alarm/smoke control system input in a column on the left. Include every initiating device by address. Inputs may be combined with prior approval. Include manual operation of control switches for fans and dampers where the switch controls multiple outputs.
				b.	Show every fire alarm/smoke control system output in a row across the top. Include every notification appliance by zone, every fan and damper (or group of dampers) by identifier, every monitored device by identifier and every other event that must occur for proper operation of the smoke control system. Control may be combined with prior approval.
				c.	Show automatic fan shutoffs per CMC 609 where required or provided.
				d.	Show supervised conditions for required smoke control components such as fan power disconnect, pressure differentials switches, switches, fans not full speed, and doors/ windows/dampers open or closed.
				e.	Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be transmitted to an approved supervising station in accordance with NFPA 72 [CBC 907.6.5].
			iii.	Provide a full scale color drawing of the Firefighters Smoke Control Panel (FSCP) for review and approval prior to fabrication [CBC 909.2].
				a.	Show individual control switches for fans and dampers or multiple dampers with identical actions, and automatic closing/opening doors required for smoke control [909.16.2].
				b.	The FSCP shall show status indicators for all smoke control equipment by pilot lamp-type indicators as follows [CBC 909.16.1]:
					•	GREEN:  Fans, dampers and other operating equipment are in their ON or OPEN status. Provide a green light to indicate Smoke Control Mode and another for Manual Mode.
					•	RED:  Fans, dampers and other operating equipment are in their OFF or CLOSED status.
					•	YELLOW:  Fans, dampers and other operating equipment are in a fault status.
				Add two pilot lamp-type indicators at right top of FSCP to indicate panel is in smoke control mode:  green-normal and red-smoke control mode.
				c.	Provide a legend or matrix either on the FSCP or separately mounted adjacent to the FSCP showing the configuration of fans, dampers and doors in normal status mode and smoke control status mode.
				d.	Alternate designs of the firefighters’ smoke control panel may be approved on a case-by- case basis by SFFD.
			iv.	Include a reference copy of the approved mechanical plans.
		3.	Smoke control systems shall have an automatic weekly self-test feature. The self-test feature shall automatically command activation of each associated function(s). An audible and visual trouble signal shall be annunciated at the FSCP identifying any function that fails to operate within the required time period [CBC 909.12, 907; UL 864].
	h.	Smoke Control Systems Designed Per the 1995, 1998, 2001, 2007 CBC/SFBC
		1.	For existing smoke control systems designed per the 1995, 1998, 2001 or 2007 CBC/SFBC, comply with the requirements of Section 5 for the modified portions of the system except as revised in this section.
		2.	Where modifications to existing smoke control systems are made and original approved reports are not available, provide a new Smoke Control Report, Special Inspection Program and Final Testing Report.
		3.	Where modifications to existing smoke control systems are minor, DBI/SFFD may waive requirements for new reports or amendments to the original approved reports on a case-by-case basis. Minor modifications do not include new FSDs, smoke barriers/walls, a new Fire Alarm system, changes in use/occupancy, replacement of equipment (not in-kind), or like changes to the building and its systems.
		4.	Where work is done to a building with a smoke control system provide on plans a narrative of the smoke control/management system(s) operation and a matrix of fire/smoke damper operations for normal and smoke control modes of the smoke management system(s).
		5.	Where building renovations do not affect the design or operation of existing smoke control systems, provide the following non-infringement statement on the permit drawings:
			“I have read the Smoke Control Report and confirm the building renovations on the drawings under my responsible charge do not affect the design or operation of existing smoke control systems.”
		The non-infringement statement shall be signed by the architect and engineers-of- record (mechanical and electrical).
	i.	Smoke Control Systems Designed Per the 1992 CBC/SFBC or Earlier
		1.	For smoke control systems designed per the 1992 CBC/SFBC or earlier, comply with the requirements of this section.
		2.	Where building renovations affect the design or operation of existing smoke control systems, provide a smoke control narrative on the permit drawings that describes the building renovations and modifications to the existing smoke control systems.
		3.	Where work is done to a building with a smoke control system provide on plans a narrative of the smoke control/management system(s) operation and a matrix of fire/smoke damper operations for normal and smoke control modes of the smoke management system(s).
		4.	Where building renovations do not affect the design or operation of existing smoke control systems, provide the following non-infringement statement on the permit drawings:
			“The building renovations shown on the drawings under my responsible charge do not affect the design or operation of existing smoke control systems.”
		The non-infringement statement shall be signed by the architect and engineers-of- record.
5.	SPECIAL INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS
	a.	Special Inspector
		1.	CBC, Section 909 requires a special inspector to perform inspection and acceptance testing of smoke control systems.
		2.	The special inspector is responsible for verifying that the smoke control system is installed in accordance with the requirements of CBC, Section 909, and that the system achieves the performance defined in the Smoke Control Report.
	b.	Inspection and Test Process
		1.	Two inspection and testing processes are required for smoke control systems:
			i.	Special inspection/testing by a special inspector, and
			ii.	When the special inspector is satisfied that the smoke control system is properly installed and functioning per design, DBI/SFFD inspectors witness final acceptance testing.
	c.	Submittals
		1.	Two submittals are required to document special inspection:
			i.	A written inspection and test program, and
			ii.	A report describing the inspection and testing performed (as required by CBC, Section 909.18.8, AB-046).
	d.	New and Modified Smoke Control Systems
		1.	Inspection, testing and submittal requirements for projects involving modifications to existing smoke control systems are the same as for projects involving new smoke control systems. While new systems require 100 percent of the smoke control system to be tested, the extent of testing required for modifications to existing systems shall be approved by DBI/SFFD.
6.	SPECIAL INSPECTION QUALIFICATIONS
		a.	Special Inspector
			1.	The special inspector shall be employed by the owner, owner’s agent, architect or engineers-of-record but not the contractor or any other person responsible for the work [SFBC 106A.3.5].
			2.	The special inspector shall be a qualified person who shall demonstrate competence, to the satisfaction of DBI and SFFD, for the inspection and testing of smoke control systems.
			3.	The special inspector may be the smoke control system designer, if qualified per 7.1.2.
		b.	Testing Agencies
			1.	Testing agencies shall be engaged by the owner or owner’s agent; “The special inspector shall be employed by the owner, the engineer or architect of record, or an agent of the owner, but not the contractor or any other person responsible for the work” [SFBC 106A.3.5].
			2.	Testing agencies that measure HVAC performance (TAB agencies) shall be certified by the Associated Air Balance Council (AABC) or the National Environmental Balancing Bureau (NEBB).
7.	SPECIAL INSPECTION SUBMITTALS FOR SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS
	a.	Special Inspection Program
		1.	General
			i.	A written Special Inspection Program shall be submitted to DBI/SFFD for review and approval [SFBC 106A.3.5].
			ii.	The Special Inspection Program shall be prepared by the architect, mechanical engineer-of- record or the author of the Smoke Control Report. The Program may also be prepared by the special inspector if duly qualified. [CBC 909.18.8.2]
				•	Include the special inspector’s resume with the special inspection program.
			iii.	The Special Inspection Program shall be submitted with the complete Smoke Control Report for review with the Mechanical and Electrical drawings. The issuance of the mechanical and electrical permit is dependent on approval of the submittals of the Smoke Control Report and Special Inspection Program.
		2.	The Special Inspection Program shall include at least the following information:
			i.	Provide a cover page showing the facility name, address, revision number, date of submittal and preparer.
			ii.	Provide a signature page per the attached form; AB-047 Attachment 1 signature page.
			iii.	Identify the components and systems that must be inspected to demonstrate proper installation.
			iv.	Samples of Inspection Reports and time limits for submission of reports.
			v.	Provide an overview of test methods and test approach.
				a.	When leakage testing of residential smoke barriers is to be performed, the Special Inspection Program shall define the number or percentage of units (minimum of 10% of the units or 1 per floor, whichever is greater) to be tested. Include the method of testing, percentage of smoke barriers to be tested and pass/fail criteria.
				b.	If cold/hot smoke visualization testing is required by SFFD, this must be specifically addressed in the Program description. Provide testing details and methods proposed.
		3.	Two hard-copies of the Program shall be submitted in booklet form to DBI for logging-in. One copy will be returned when approved. The Program documents shall be accompanied by two CD-Rs, each with a copy of the Program “burned” onto the CD-R in PDF format. Each CD-R shall be in a slim plastic “jewel case” with a clear cover. The permit application number, project name and address, report title, date and revision number shall be clearly marked on the CD-R.
	b.	Documentation to Support Final Inspection by DBI/SFFD
		1.	When the special inspector determines that the smoke control system is complete and operating  properly, then he/she shall write a letter documenting its status. The letter shall be provided to the DBI/SFFD inspectors. The letter is required prior to DBI/SFFD starting their final inspection.
		2.	Satisfactory completion of final inspection of the smoke control system by DBI/SFD inspectors is a prerequisite for TCO.
	c.	Final Report for Special Inspection and Testing (Commissioning Report for CFO)
		1.	A complete Smoke Control System Commissioning Report meeting the requirements of CBC 909.18.8.3 shall be submitted to DBI/SFFD for review and approval.
		2.	Acceptance of the Report by DBI/SFFD is a prerequisite for TOC.
		3.	Include completed attachments 2 and 3; Special Inspection and Testing Checklist, Final Report; for each smoke control system.
		4.	Two hard-copies of the Report shall be submitted to DBI in booklet format for logging-in. The Report copies shall be accompanied by two CD-Rs, each with a copy of the Report “burned” onto the CD- R in pdf format. Each CD-R shall be in a slim plastic “jewel case” with a clear cover. The permit application number, report title, project name and address, date and revision number shall be clearly marked on the CD-R.
		5.	A copy of the Report shall be provided to the SFFD inspector.
		6.	A copy of the Report shall be maintained in the fire control room.
8.	INSPECTION AND TESTING OF SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS
	a.	General
		1.	This section provides specific requirements and clarifications for the inspection and testing of new smoke control systems. These requirements are in addition to those specified in CBC, Section 909.
		2.	Projects involving modifications to existing smoke control systems shall employ only those requirements listed below applicable to the project.
	b.	SF Inspection and Testing Requirements
		1.	Special Inspector shall Inspect and test to the following approved documents:
			i.	Smoke Control Report;
			ii.	Fire Alarm system shop drawings with the detailed smoke control sequence of operations matrix and the approved Firefighter’s Control Panel configuration;
			iii.	Architectural plans, with emphasis on smoke barrier plans;
			iv.	Fire Sprinkler plans, with focus on zoning and special design criteria required for smoke control design;
			v.	 Mechanical plans;
			vi.	 And Electrical plans.
		2.	Witness duct and shaft leakage testing. The test method shall be in accordance with SMACNA, HVAC Systems Testing, Adjusting and Balancing, Second Edition, 1993. Leakage testing shall be performed prior to the installation of dampers, but with all laterals installed. The test pressure and allowable leakage shall be in accordance with CBC, 909.10.2.
			Testing shall be performed during erection of ductwork and prior to concealment.
		3.	Witness leakage testing of the number of dwelling units defined in the Special Inspection Program. Leakage testing shall be accomplished using a calibrated door-fan test rig. Test pressure shall be approximately 0.05 in. WG or greater as determined by design. Measured leakage shall be compared to compartment leakage determined by calculation using allowable barrier leakage area ratios in CBC, 909.5 or architectural specification as applicable.
		4.	Witness airflow testing.
		5.	Visually inspect representative portions of the installed perimeter fire- safing to verify installation per its Listing and/or engineering judgment.
		6.	Visually inspect the Firefighter’s Control Panel (FFCP) and verify:
			i.	The configuration is consistent with approved fire alarm drawings;
			ii.	The panel is representative of the building smoke control system;
			iii.	Indicator lights meet San Francisco requirements:
				•	Green light:  Fan ON or Damper OPEN;
				•	Red light:  Fan OFF or Damper CLOSED;
				•	Yellow/Amber light:  Damper/Fan FAULT or Loss of Power;
			iv.	Verify that loss-of-power or airflow to each smoke control fan causes an immediate illumination of the associated FAULT light on the FSCP.
			v.	Verify that fire alarm control/monitor modules are within 3 feet of HVAC equipment used for smoke control OR that the wiring between is supervised.
			vi.	Verify that the blades on each FSD are monitored. Grouped FSDs with independent motors and jackshafts require the blades of each FSD to be monitored.
			vii.	Verify that all VFD control panels are removed or the HOA on each VFD is password-protected.
		7.	The condition of the building shall be as follows during testing:
			i.	Pressure testing shall be performed with:
				a.	Permanent power to the building and all smoke control equipment;
				b.	Windows and exterior doors CLOSED;
				c.	Sub-ducted exhaust systems (toilet, kitchen and dryer) ON at fire-event speeds;
				d.	Dampers and fans that shut down during a fire event are CLOSED/OFF.
			ii.	Proper operation of the smoke control system under standby power shall be verified (as a minimum) by:
				•	Verifying that current and voltage under normal and standby power are equivalent
			iii.	Current switches shall be adjusted after the building has been verified to be properly balanced. Adjustment shall be verified to indicate a no-belt condition, where appropriate.
		8.	The weekly self-test shall be observed and the following verified:
			i.	A written report is produced. The report must clearly indicate a “start” of the test and an “end.”  The report must clearly indicate any failures, but need not specify the component that fails.
			ii.	The test shall cycle those components required for proper operation of the smoke control system as identified in the smoke control report.
			iii.	Any failure during the self-test shall place a “TROUBLE” on the fire alarm control panel and notify Central Station.
			iv.	Any alarm shall interrupt the self-test.
		9.	Special Inspector shall verify that documentation and equipment labels are in order.
			i.	Verify that all fans and dampers used for smoke control are field labeled consistent with the control drawings (approved fire alarm drawings) and the Firefighter’s Control Panel (FFCP). Fan labels shall be red phenolic with 1 white lettering. Where the fan and the local disconnect/control panel are not immediately adjacent, both shall be labeled.
			ii.	Verify that the following are available (or will be available) in the fire control room:
				a.	As-built fire alarm (control) shop drawings;
				b.	Smoke control event matrix (typically in the approved fire alarm shop drawings);
				c.	The approved smoke control report;
				d.	Weekly self-test reports;
				e.	Final Smoke Control Special Inspection report.
9.	REFERENCED PUBLICATIONS
	These documents are considered part of this Administrative Bulletin.
		a.	2010 California Building Code (CBC) / San Francisco Building Code (SFBC)
		b.	2010 California Fire Code (CFC) / San Francisco Fire Code (SFFC)
		c.	2010 California Mechanical Code (CMC) / San Francisco Mechanical Code (SFMC).
		d.	2010 California Electrical Code (CEC) / San Francisco Electrical Code (SFEC).
		e.	2009 NFPA 92A, Recommended Practices for Smoke-Control Systems
		f.	2005 NFPA 92B, Smoke Management Systems in Malls, Atria and Large Spaces
		g.	Guide to the 2006 IBC Smoke-control Provisions, Dr. John H. Klote and Douglas H. Evans, P.E., 2006 International Building Code.
		h.	ASHRAE Guideline 5-1994, Commissioning Smoke Management Systems.
		i.	SMACNA, HVAC Air Duct Leakage Test Manual, First Edition, 1985.
Signed by:
Vivian L. Day, C.B.O.	6/20/12Thomas E. Harvey	6/18/12DirectorFire MarshalDepartment of Building InspectionSan Francisco Fire Department
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on May 18, 2011.
Attachment 1: Signature Page
Attachment 2: Special Inspection and Testing Summary Checklist
Attachment 3: Special Inspection and Final Report
AB-056  Disabled Access Compliance Status Documentation
NO. AB-056	:DATE	:March 8, 2005 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references.)SUBJECT	:Disabled AccessTITLE	:Disabled Access Compliance Status DocumentationPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Bulletin is to establish a procedure under which permit applicants can achieve and document full or partial building accessibility. It is the intent of the Department of Building Inspection to document buildings or portions of buildings that are in compliance with current accessibility requirements, thus reducing the need for permit applicants to submit reference drawings and other duplicative documents in areas deemed in compliance.
Such documentation of accessibility is to be reviewed and updated upon adoption of each new edition of the California Building Code or relevant amendment to that code.REFERENCE	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Chapter 11B, Accessibility to Public Buildings, Public Accommodations, Commercial Buildings and Publicly Funded Housing
- Section 106A.3.3, Information on plans and specifications
- Section 106A.4.3, Validity of permit DISCUSSION	:Project sponsors must meet certain disability access requirements as part of the permit, construction and building alteration process. The submittal of documentation to demonstrate disabled access compliance for each area of construction work or other building alteration has posed a burden on permit applicants and the Department of Building Inspection. To help reduce this burden while maintaining code compliance, the Department will accept a separate permit application documenting the status of disabled access compliance under current building codes. This will obviate the need for repeated submittal and review of multiple sets of identical documents for a single building. Such separate permit for disabled access compliance may then be referenced on subsequent permit applications, assuring required disabled access compliance under each such permit.
In order to demonstrate compliance with disabled access requirements, project sponsors must submit documentation accompanying permit applications. Such documentation may include drawings or, where a building or a portion of a building has been determined under previous permit to be in compliance with disabled access requirements, may include a Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status referencing completed permits and related drawings on file with the Building Department.
PROCEDURES
The following procedures apply for the submittal and approval of permits which result in the issuance of a Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status.
If a building owner wishes to document full or partial access compliance, a permit application may be submitted indicating, as the description of work, Disabled Access Compliance Status. Such permit application for Disabled Access Compliance Status should include a permit cost valuation of $1.00. All review of submittal documents done by the Department of Building Inspection prior to permit issuance will be billed on an hourly basis in accordance with San Francisco Building Code (SFBC) Table 1A-B, Item 2, Back Check Fee. Any construction work that is determined to be necessary under this permit application shall be properly valued and appropriate permit fees shall be charged for such valuation.
The Disabled Access Compliance Status permit application may be submitted concurrently with or prior to the submittal of other permit applications for construction or tenant improvement work. All permits shall be linked by clear statements on the permit applications for both the disabled access compliance work and any other construction work. The statement on the permit application for the disabled access compliance work should read, “To comply with Disabled Access required under Permit Application #_______________.” The statement on the permit applications for the tenant improvement work or other construction work should, similarly, note “Disabled Access work related to this construction is being done under Permit Application #_____________.”  Disability access within areas of tenant improvement shall be shown on the tenant improvement plans.
Permits may be routed separately for plan review and may be approved separately. 
Plan Review Procedures
	a)	All permits must be accompanied by three sets of submittal documents that indicate required compliance with those portions of the building that the project sponsor wishes to certify. Such portions may include parking, entry, path of travel, public areas such as lobbies, elevators, rest rooms, and other disabled access features. Individual tenant spaces are not included as part of this compliance status documentation. Submittal documents shall include a “key” map or other clear diagram of the areas to be reviewed for compliance. All submittal documents must be signed by a licensed architect or engineer. 
	b)	Other permits for tenant improvement work during the period when the Disabled Access Compliance Status Documentation permit application is under review must reference the Permit Application number for the Disabled Access Compliance Status Documentation permit.
	c)	A permit issued for Disabled Access Compliance Status Documentation may be referenced by subsequent permits to demonstrate that disabled access compliance is being addressed or that such work has been completed and deemed satisfactory in meeting code requirements.
Field Inspection Procedures
Field inspection of disabled access features shall be done by an inspector with special expertise in this field as designated by the Director or otherwise in accordance with policies and regulations developed by the Department.
Permit Time Limits
	a)	Plan review time limits shall be as detailed in SFBC Section 106A.3.7, Application Expiration.
	b)	Following issuance of a permit for Disabled Access Compliance Status, if work is to be done, such work must be started and completed within the times allowed, based on the permit valuation. See SFBC Section 106A.4.4, Permit Expiration.
	c)	Permit extensions shall apply per SFBC Section 106A.4.4, Permit Expiration.
Permit Sign-Off
	a)	Temporary occupancy may be allowed in accordance with the policies of the Department of Building Inspection.
	b)	A final sign-off on the permit for Disabled Access Compliance Status Documentation will be made by the District Building Inspector or by other staff assigned by the Director following completion of all work.
Issuance of Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status
Upon completion and final sign-off of any Permit Application for Disabled Access Compliance Status Documentation, the Department will issue a Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status indicating the scope of approved disabled access compliance and any special conditions or exceptions that may apply, including such items as Unreasonable Hardships or Access Appeal Commission decisions. The Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status must be copied onto any plans that are submitted for subsequent work on the building which intend to refer to this compliance permit. The Department has the authority to revoke any such letter at any time for any reason if disabled access is not being provided in full accord with the requirements of the law or in compliance with the conditions of the letter.
A copy of the Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status and the related approved permit documents shall be maintained by the Department of Building Inspection in an accessible, paper form to allow easy reference by staff and other interested parties. Such documents shall also be microfilmed or otherwise recorded as part of the permanent records of the property.
Revisions/Reissuance of an Issued Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status
The Department will require that any issued Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status conform to changes to disabled access regulations as they occur. This will require a review and update of each Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status upon adoption of each new edition of the California Building Code or relevant amendment to that code. Compliance with such new code requirements will only be required if:
	•	Such code requirements apply retroactively
	•	Subsequent construction work or other building alteration triggers such additional disabled access requirements
A project sponsor may apply for a permit to alter the scope of the Disabled Access Letter of Compliance. An additional permit and plans will be required to verify conformance with code requirements for disabled access when a Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status is revised or reissued.
When Access Appeals Commission decisions relate to portions of the building covered by this Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status, such appeals decisions will be referenced in the letter and all Access Appeals Commission conditions must be met as a condition of the letter. When the Access Appeals Commission has defined a time period as part of an appeal decision, such time period will be noted by date of expiration on the Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status. Issues related to that AAC decision must be reconsidered following the expiration of such time period.
Attachment: Sample Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status
Originally Signed By:
Jim Hutchinson, March 8, 2005 Acting Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on March 7, 2005
Attachment: Letter of Disabled Access Compliance Status
AB-057  Local Equivalency for Approval of Roof Hatches in Lieu of Stairway Penthouses in Designated Buildings
NO. AB-057	:DATE	:July 19, 2004 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references.)SUBJECT	:Plan Review and Permit ProcessTITLE	:Local Equivalency for Approval of Roof Hatches in Lieu of Stairway Penthouses in Designated BuildingsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to provide standards and procedures for the application, case-by-case review and approval of requests for a modification based on Local Equivalency to allow the use of roof hatches as alternates to stairway penthouses in R-3 buildings where the stairway access to the roof does not strictly comply with the provisions of Section 1009.16 of the San Francisco Building Code.REFERENCE	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 104A.2.1, General, rules and regulations
- Section 104A.2.7, Modifications
- Section 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, alternate design and methods of construction
- Section 705.5 and Tables 601 and 602, Fire Resistance of Walls
- Section 705.11, Parapets
- Section 1009, Stairways
- Section 1009.16, Stairway to roofDISCUSSION	:The installation of roof penthouses throughout the City is an issue of serious concern to the public and the Planning Department inasmuch as such penthouses may expand structures to larger than may be compatible with surrounding structures and may block sunlight and views. Roof penthouses are often a basis of extensive Planning and Building Department review, permit appeals and reconsideration during construction. The use of roof hatches in lieu of stair penthouses under certain conditions can do much to resolve the problems related to roof penthouses, could permit rapid processing and issuance, and, if installed in accordance with the following conditions, would not impair the code-mandated suitability, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, safety or sanitation of the standard method of roof access. 
This bulletin does not apply to buildings under the jurisdiction of the San Francisco Fire Department, although requests to apply alternates and equivalencies to the regular code will be considered by the Fire Department on a case-by-case basis.
The use of roof hatches under this Administrative Bulletin is limited to the following applications:
1.	Where proposed roof hatches provide access to the roof of buildings under the jurisdiction of the Department of Building Inspection, and 
2.	Where a stairway to the roof is either required by code or voluntarily proposed, and
3.	Where the roof hatch and its appurtenances are approved and constructed as detailed below, and
4.	When the roof hatch is served by a stairway.
Other applications for roof hatches in lieu of required fully complying stairways will be considered on a case-by-case basis under the review and approval procedures in the California Building Code regarding “Modifications” and “Alternative materials, alternate designs and methods of construction.”
Note:  Under Section 1009.16.1, Exception:  In buildings without an occupied roof, access to the roof shall be permitted to be a roof hatch or trap door not less than16 square feet in area and having a minimum dimension of 2 feet.
Procedure for Application of Local Equivalency
Project sponsors wishing to apply Local Equivalencies must fill out and submit the request for Approval of Local Equivalencies on a standard form (Attachment A). Fees to be paid and scheduling of review of requests are as noted on that form. Following Department of Building Inspection and, as appropriate, other agency review, each request will be approved, approved with conditions, disapproved, or placed on “Hold” pending submittal of additional information.
Further details of procedures for the review of Local Equivalencies and appeal of departmental determinations may be found in AB-005, Request for Approval of Local Equivalencies. 
Conditions of Local Equivalency
Roof hatches in lieu of stairway penthouses may be permitted when the following approved equivalent provisions are met. This Local Equivalency allows roof hatches to be used in lieu of stairway penthouses and for such roof hatch to be considered as meeting the code requirements for a stairway to the roof if the below listed standard provisions are met:
1.	Applicant shall submit drawings showing details of the proposed roof hatch, stairway, stair handrail, and other details as needed to demonstrate compliance, insofar as is practical, with the stairway requirements of the San Francisco Building Code. Submittal documents shall include a plan view showing the location of the roof hatch and stairway and shall include sections and/or elevations detailing the proposed installation.
2.	Stairways shall have handrails on at least one side. At least one handrail shall extend at least 34 inches above the roof surface. Such handrail may be attached to the underside of the operable hatch so that it is in the correct position for handrails when the hatch is in the open position, or it may be secured to the roof or other construction. Minor breaks in the continuity of the handrail are permitted; handrail sections must be generally aligned.
3.	If the opening for the stairway to the roof is within the distance where protection of openings is required, then parapets extending along the parapet wall at least the length of the opening shall be provided per Section 705.11.
4.	The curb at the roof opening for the roof hatch on the side where the stairs emerge from the interior shall extend above the roof surface no more than nine inches, the curb at the roof hatch on other sides of the hatch shall not exceed 24 inches above the roof surface, and the maximum height of any portion of the hatch in a closed position shall not exceed 36 inches above the roof surface.
5.	The rise and run of stairs to the roof shall meet regular code requirements.
6.	The width of a stairway to a roof and the clear width of a roof hatch in its open position shall be not less than 30 inches, except that when serving an occupied roof with an occupant load of 10 or more or serving an occupied roof area greater than 400 square feet the width shall meet the specific requirements of the San Francisco Building Code. Handrails, lifting mechanisms and other equipment may encroach into the required width up to 1 1/2" when the roof hatch is in a fully open position.
7.	When the roof hatch serves an occupied roof, the hatch latching mechanism shall be operable from the exterior.
A permit application and related submittal documents shall detail all construction that is approved as a result of this Request for Approval of Local Equivalency. No work to install roof hatches in lieu of stairway penthouses shall be done prior to approval of such Permit Application and issuance of a permit.
Signed By:
Frank Y. Chiu, July 18, 2004
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on July 18, 2004
Attachment A: Request for Approval of Local Equivalency
AB-058  Procedures for Seismic Instrumentation of New Buildings
NO. AB-058	:DATE	:March 25, 2008 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references.)SUBJECT	:Building Seismic InstrumentationTITLE	:Procedures for Seismic Instrumentation of New BuildingsPURPOSE	:To describe requirements and procedures for installing, monitoring, and reporting data from required or voluntarily installed seismic instruments in buildings.REFERENCES	:2013  San Francisco Building Code, Section 1604.12, Earthquake Recording Instrumentation. 2013 California Building Code Appendix L.
Federal Emergency Management Agency, July 2000, Recommended Post-Earthquake Evaluation and Repair Criteria for Existing Welded Steel Moment-Frame Buildings, FEMA 352, Washington, D.C.
CSMIP (California Strong Motion Instrumentation Program) Document: CGS/DGS SYSREQ 2007-TR State of California, System Requirements: Integrated Tri-Axial Accelerograph, Downloadable at:http://www.conservation.ca.gov/cgs/smip/Documents/SystemRqmts-TriaxialAccelerograph.pdfDISCUSSION	:Information regarding building performance in earthquakes is important in improving construction practices to further reduce the risk of future earthquake damage by developing codes, standards, and mitigation measures. Such information also helps to understand the movement of buildings following earthquakes and provides data to guide in the inspection, testing and repair of post-earthquake building damage. San Francisco has adopted California Building Code Appendix L, requiring provision of instrumentation for the collection of building seismic data.
A.	REQUIRED INSTRUMENTATION
Installation Required
As detailed in California Building Code Appendix L, every new building in San Francisco over six stories in height with an aggregate floor area of 60,000 square feet (5574 m2) or more, and every new building over 10 stories in height regardless of floor area, shall be provided with not less than three approved recording accelerographs with triaxial seismic sensors.
Approval and Documentation of Instrumentation
Project sponsors who are required to provide accelerographs for new buildings must submit two sets of submittal documents, as part of the building permit submittal documents, detailing the proposed installation. Such documents shall clearly identify the following:
	•	Floor plans of building showing locations of accelerographs.
	•	Specifications of accelerographs and related instruments and equipment.
Plans will be submitted to DBI for approval.
Approved plans will be transmitted to California Strong Motion Instrumentation Program.
Guidelines for Installation of Accelerographs:
1.	Location. The accelerographs shall be located in the basement, midportion, and near the top of the building. The preferred locations for the accelerographs are in small, seldom-used rooms or closets near a column. Instruments ideally should be vertically aligned. Adequate space shall be provided to mount the accelerographs and to contain an approved protective enclosure. The protective enclosure shall be securely fastened to the floor or ceiling.
2.	Service Requirements. Each accelerograph shall be located so that access is maintained at all times. Access shall be unobstructed by room contents. A sign stating “Maintain Clear Access To This Instrument” shall be posted in a conspicuous location near each instrument. This sign shall also include the phone numbers of the local building contact and the Department of Building Inspection.
Each accelerograph requires AC power.
A dial-up telephone line is required at the base-level accelerograph.
2.	Installation Details. All accelerographs shall be installed with the same orientation relative to the building, with the orientation chosen such that the reference or long dimension of the instrument is aligned with a major axis of the building. The orientation shall be clearly and permanently marked on the floor near the location of each instrument. The accelerographs’ triggering threshold shall be set to 1% g, nominal. Auxiliary devices (e.g. telephone switch) shall be secured to the floor, ceiling or to the enclosure.
3.	The accelerographs shall be interconnected for common start and common timing.
4.	The owner of the building shall be responsible for the correct installation and the required documentation of the accelerographs.
Maintenance
1.	Programs for the maintenance and service of the instruments, and remote and onsite access to the data, shall be provided by the owner of the building, subject to approval by the Director of DBI. Once each year, the building owner shall submit a form to DBI certifying that the equipment is in operating order and describing any changes in the equipment or access procedures. (See attached Appendix B).
2.	Log book on-site by owner.
3.	Long Term Monitoring and Data Recovery. Upon acceptance of the installation, the California Strong Motion Instrumentation Program agrees to perform long-term monitoring of the accelerographs to help assure their correct operation. The California Strong Motion Instrumentation Program will perform periodic operational checks and function tests remotely via the provided phone line. California Strong Motion Instrumentation Program will notify the building contact person and Department of Building Inspection when any repair actions are needed. For instruments monitored by CSMIP, equipment operation will be remotely checked and the building owner will be notified of needed repairs. Needed repairs shall be made by the building owner.
Data Recovery and Analysis
Data produced by the instruments shall be made available to DBI upon request. Data shall be retrievable remotely by internet connection or modem. After a significant earthquake, California Strong Motion Instrumentation Program will recover the recorded data, process it and provide results to the designated building contact person and to the Department of Building Inspection. With the approval of the Department of Building Inspection, strong motion data from an instrumented building may be made public on the California Strong Motion Instrumentation Program web site, with the location of the building identified generically, with no specific building address provided.
If the basement acceleration exceeds 5% g then the set of records must be transmitted to the owner and DBI.
B. VOLUNTARY INSTRUMENTATION
Voluntary instrumentation of new and existing buildings not required to be instrumented is encouraged. Compliance to the guidelines in this Administrative Bulletin is recommended for voluntary instrumentation.
If inspections are required, data from instrumentation systems meeting the minimum standards of California Building code Appendix Lwill be considered for reduction of connection inspection requirements following an earthquake. More comprehensive instrumentation is strongly recommended, particularly for tall or irregular buildings.
Signed by: 
Vivian L. Day, C.B.O.			
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission March 19, 2008
Attachments:	APPENDIX A Cabling, Communications And Equipment Specifications
		APPENDIX B Instrumentation Program and Annual Renewal
AB-060  Information Technology Rooms Definitions and Requirements
NO. AB-060	:DATE	:January 7, 2004 (Updated 01/01/14 for California Electrical Code references)SUBJECT	:Fire and Life SafetyTITLE	:Information Technology Rooms Definitions and RequirementsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Bulletin is to provide guidelines for determining what constitutes an Information Technology Room per SF Electrical Code and what requirements apply to such Information Technology Rooms.REFERENCES	:San Francisco Electrical Code, 2013, Article 645
NFPA 75, 1995 Edition, Chapter 1 DISCUSSION	:Because of the need to comply with specific building, mechanical and electrical code requirements, there is a need to clearly define when Information Technology Rooms are created. Such Information Technology Rooms may be created by being so defined on plans and permits, by the general nature of their construction, by the installation of certain types of equipment, or by the use of various electrical installation and connection methods. When Information Technology Rooms are created, specific construction requirements become applicable, particularly regarding wiring methods, fire-resistive construction, and HVAC controls.
An Information Technology Room, also known as an Electronic Computer Data Processing Room, is created by the installation of electronic equipment and wiring that does not conform to the standard requirements of Chapter 3, Wiring Methods and Materials, and Chapter 4, Equipment for General Use, of the 2013 San Francisco Electrical Code. Installation of power cord wiring in under-floor also generally creates an Information Technology Room.
In general, the installation of computer equipment that is directly connected to the premises wiring system, or that is connected to the premises wiring system receptacle outlets by cord-and- plug wiring with a cord not exceeding six feet in length, does not create an Information Technology Room. 
An IT Room is created if, by the nature of its design and/or by the method of installation, utilization equipment requires power cord wiring in excess of six feet in length. An Information Technology Room is created when freestanding equipment racks containing electrical utilization equipment are not provided with outlets installed using Chapter 3 wiring methods. One cord and plug connected relocatable power tap, surge suppressor, uninterrupted power supply, or similar equipment used in accordance with the terms of its listing may be installed between a premises wiring system receptacle and the utilization equipment.
When an Information Technology Room is created, the following requirements apply:
	•	An emergency power shut-off switch shall be provided that shuts off all data processing and HVAC equipment, disconnects UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply Systems) having a capacity of 750 volt-amperes or more, and shuts required fire/smoke dampers. California Electrical Code 645.4(1)
	•	Fire/smoke dampers shall isolate the portion of the HVAC system serving the Information Technology Room. California Electrical Code 645.4(2)
	•	The Information Technology Room shall be separated from other areas by at least one-hour fire-rated construction with protected openings. California Electrical Code 645.4(5)
Conforming Information Technology Rooms are permitted to have wiring installed in the following manner: 
	•	Cord-and-plug connection of equipment using power cords greater than 6  is permitted when protected from physical damage as required by California Electrical Code 645.5(D).
	•	Interconnection of power units using cord wiring, when the equipment is listed for such use, is permitted. California Electrical Code 645.5(C)
	•	Cord wiring and listed data processing cables are permitted under raised floor areas. California Electrical Code 645.5(D)
	•	Wiring and equipment listed for use as part of Information Technology equipment need not be secured in place. California Electrical Code 645.5(E)
Procedure for Plan Check and Inspection of Information Technology Rooms:
It is the responsibility of a permit applicant to identify any area that will be classified as an Information Technology Room under this bulletin, and to properly detail and construct all required fire separation assemblies, HVAC controls and other features. Department of Building Inspection staff are available through the pre-application and pre-addendum plan review procedure (see AB-028) and during the plan review process to assist in determining if Information Technology Rooms are being created and to assist in determining necessary construction requirements. Detailed compliance information should be provided in the submittal documents and will then appear in the approved construction documents.
If, during the course of building, electrical or other inspection, it is determined that work underway has created an Information Technology Room without that room having been detailed in the approved construction documents, an additional permit detailing compliance will be required per SFBC 106A.4.7 or the construction shall be altered so that the area no longer constitutes an Information Technology Room.
Signed by:
Frank Y. Chiu, January 12, 2004
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on January 7, 2004
AB-078  Criteria for Waiving Special Inspection Requirements for Signs, Awnings and Canopies
NO. AB-078	:DATE	:June 5, 2012 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Permit Review and OperationTITLE	:Criteria for Waiving Special Inspection Requirements for Signs, Awnings and CanopiesPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to establish criteria for waiving the special inspection requirements for signs, awnings and canopies meeting the conditions of this Administrative Bulletin.REFERENCES	:2013 California Building Code
- Section 108A.1 Inspections, General
- Chapter 17 Structural Tests and Special Inspections
- Section 3107 Signs
- Section 3105 Awnings and Canopies
DBI Administrative Bulletin AB-046, Special Inspection and Structural Observation ProcedureDISCUSSION	:SFBC Section 1704.2 Exception 1 states that “Special inspections are not required for work of a minor nature or as warranted by conditions in the jurisdiction as approved by the building official.”
This Administrative Bulletin is to establish criteria for waiving the special inspection requirements for signs, awnings and canopies which are less than the sizes, weights and projection as specified below.
Conditions of Waivers
1.	Awnings and canopies
	a.	For fabric awnings and canopies, engineering calculations and special inspection on welding are waived.
	b.	For fabric awnings and canopies, special inspection on anchor bolts is waived, provided that:
		i.	All expansion bolts are installed with the required torque per manufacturer’s ICC report, and,
		ii.	There are at least 4 bolts per connection and bolts are at least 3/8 diameter and embedded at least 3 inches.
2.	Signs
For signs weighing less than 250 lbs., less than 24 sq. ft. in area and less than a 4 feet projection, engineering calculations and all special inspections are waived, provided that all expansion bolts are installed with the required torque per manufacturer’s ICC report.
For signs less than 24 sq. ft. in area but exceeding the weight and projection limits above, special inspection on welding is waived. Special inspection on anchor bolts is also waived, provided that:
	a.	Structural calculations are submitted showing that the stress level is not more than 25% of the design allowable;
	b.	All expansion bolts are installed with the required torque per manufacturer’s ICC report; and
	c.	There are at least 4 bolts per connection and bolts are at least 3/8 diameter and embedded at least three (3) inches.
Signed by:
Vivian L. Day, C.B.O.		6/5/2012
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on 3/21/2012
AB-082  Guidelines and Procedures for Structural Design Review
NO. AB-082	:DATE	:March 25, 2008 (Updated 1/1/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Permit Processing and IssuanceTITLE	:Guidelines and Procedures for Structural Design ReviewPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to present guidelines and procedures for Structural Design Review. Structural Design Review may be required by the San Francisco Building Code, by another Administrative Bulletin, or at the request of the Director of the Department of Building Inspection.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 101A.2, Purpose
- Section 104A.2, Powers and Duties of Building Official
- Section 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, design, and methods of construction
- Section 105A.6, Structural Advisory Committee
- Chapter 16, Structural Design
ASCE 7-10
- Section 16.2.5 Design Review, Seismic Response History Procedures
- Section 17.7 Design Review, Seismically Isolated Structures
- Section 18.8 Design Review, Structures with Damping SystemsDISCUSSION	:
1.	STRUCTURAL DESIGN REVIEWER
The Director may request the assistance of a Structural Design Reviewer to provide additional and specialized expertise to supplement the Department of Building Inspection plan review. The Structural Design Reviewer is distinct from a Structural Advisory Committee, which is a formal, public body that the Director may convene regarding matters pertaining to special features or special design procedures. The Structural Design Reviewer meets with the Engineer of Record and with Department of Building Inspection staff as the need arises throughout the design process, providing the Director with a report of its findings after completion of their work.
Review by the Structural Design Reviewer is not intended to replace quality assurance measures ordinarily exercised by the Engineer of Record in the structural design of a building. Responsibility for the structural design remains solely with the Engineer of Record, and the burden to demonstrate conformance of the structural design to the letter and intent of San Francisco Building Code provisions resides solely with the Engineer of Record. The responsibility for conducting the structural review for the plan check resides with the Director and any plan review consultants.
The San Francisco Building Code (through reference to ASCE 7) requires design review by independent registered design professionals in several cases. These include use of seismic response history procedures, use of seismic isolation, and use of seismic dampers. The Structural Design Reviewer will provide this review where required by the San Francisco Building Code. The Structural Design Reviewer will also provide review as required by other Department of Building Inspection Administrative Bulletins and when otherwise deemed necessary by the Director. Structural Design Review, as discussed herein, and design review, as discussed in ASCE 7, are equivalent.
Qualifications and Selection of Structural Design Reviewer
The Structural Design Reviewer shall be a recognized expert in relevant fields such as structural engineering, earthquake engineering, performance-based earthquake engineering, nonlinear response history analysis, building design, earthquake ground motion, geotechnical engineering, geological engineering, and other areas of knowledge and experience relevant to the project.
The Structural Design Reviewer shall be selected by the Project Sponsor from a project specific list provided by the Director. The Project Sponsor may then engage a Structural Design Reviewer as a consultant for assistance as appropriate. The Structural Design Reviewer shall bear no conflict of interest with respect to the project and shall not be considered part of the design team for the project. The responsibility of the Structural Design Reviewer is to assist the Department of Building Inspection in ensuring compliance of the structural design with the San Francisco Building Code. While the Structural Design Reviewer will contract with the Project Sponsor, their responsibility is to the Department of Building Inspection.
The Structural Design Reviewer shall be registered as a Professional Engineer in California. The Structural Design Reviewer shall sign all written communication to the Director.
Administration of Structural Design Review
The Project Sponsor is responsible for the payment of hourly fees and other expenses for the professional services of the Structural Design Reviewer. The Structural Design Reviewer shall provide to the Department of Building Inspection a written copy of a proposed scope of work of their contract with the Project Sponsor. The proposed scope of services in the contract and any changes proposed to be made thereto shall be approved by the Director.
2.	PROJECTS REQUIRING STRUCTURAL DESIGN REVIEW
The Director may require Structural Design Review for any project at his discretion. The following types of projects will generally require Structural Design Review:
	1.	Projects incorporating non-prescriptive or performance-based design.
	2.	Projects incorporating building heights that exceed 240 feet.
	3.	Projects incorporating seismic response-history analyses per Chapter 16 of ASCE 7.*
	4.	Projects incorporating seismic isolation per Chapter 17 of ASCE 7.*
	5.	Projects incorporating seismic damping per Chapter 18 of ASCE 7.*
	6.	Projects with irregular and unusual configurations or systems.
Project Sponsors are strongly encouraged to contact the Department of Building Inspection early in the design to determine Structural Design Review requirements.
*Note:	To the extent design review is required under ASCE 7-10, Sections 16.2.5, 17.7 or 18.8, such review process shall be conducted in accordance with the specific requirements of the Building Code and all applicable law.”
3.	SCOPE OF STRUCTURAL DESIGN REVIEW SERVICES
The scope of services for the Structural Design Reviewer shall be indicated by the Director to provide required expertise to supplement the Department of Building Inspection plan review. It may, therefore, be only for specific portions or structural elements of a project. This scope of services may include, but shall not be limited to, review of the following:
	1.	Earthquake hazard determination.
	2.	Site-specific ground motion characterization.
	3.	Seismic performance goals.
	4.	Basis of design, design methodology and acceptance criteria.
	5.	Mathematical modeling and simulation.
	6.	Interpretation of results of analysis.
	7.	Member selection and design.
	8.	Detail concepts and design.
	9.	Construction Documents, including drawings and specifications.
	10.	Isolator or damper testing requirements and quality control procedures.
	11.	At the discretion of the Director, the scope of services for the Structural Design Reviewer may include the review of other building aspects, including design for wind resistance, design of special foundation or earth retaining systems, or the design of critical non-structural elements.
4.	STRUCTURAL DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS
The Structural Design Reviewer should be engaged as early in the structural design phase as practicable. This affords the Structural Design Reviewer an opportunity to evaluate fundamental design decisions, which could disrupt design development if addressed later in the design phase. Early in the design process, the Engineer of Record and the Structural Design Reviewer should jointly establish the frequency and timing of Structural Design Reviewer review milestones, and the degree to which the Engineer of Record anticipates the design will be developed for each milestone.
The Structural Design Reviewer shall provide written comments to the Engineer of Record, and the Engineer of Record shall prepare written responses thereto. The Structural Design Reviewer shall maintain a log that summarizes Structural Design Reviewer comments, Engineer of Record responses to comments, and resolution of comments. The Structural Design Reviewer shall make the log available to the Engineer of Record as requested. The Structural Design Reviewer may also issue interim reports as appropriate relative to the scope and project requirements. At the conclusion of the review the Structural Design Reviewer shall submit to the Director a written report that references the scope of the review, includes the comment log and supporting documents, and indicates the professional opinions of the Structural Design Reviewer regarding the design’s general conformance to the requirements and guidelines in this bulletin.
	Commentary: None of the reports or documents from the Structural Design Reviewer are Construction Documents. Under no circumstances should letters or other documents from the Structural Design Reviewer be put into the Engineer of Record’s drawings or reproduced in any other way that makes Structural Design Reviewer documents appear to be part of the Construction Contract Documents. The Engineer of Record is solely responsible for the Construction Contract Documents. Documents from the Structural Design Reviewer will be retained as part of the Department of Building Inspection’s project files.
5.	DISPUTE RESOLUTION
The Engineer of Record and the Structural Design Reviewer shall work in a collegial manner, as independent and reasonable professionals. The Structural Design Reviewer shall prepare comments in a respectful manner and shall make reasonable requests of the Engineer of Record for additional analyses or backup information. The Engineer of Record shall address the Structural Design Reviewer comments cordially and respond directly and clearly.
The Engineer of Record and the Structural Design Reviewer shall attempt to develop a consensus on each issue raised by the Structural Design Reviewer. If the Engineer of Record and the Structural Design Reviewer are unable to resolve particular comments, the Structural Design Reviewer shall report the impasse to the Director.
The Director, as Building Official, shall make final decisions concerning all permits. The Director, should the need arise, may address differences of opinion between the Engineer of Record and the Structural Design Reviewer in whatever method he deems appropriate. The Director also may engage additional outside experts to assist in issue resolution.
Originally signed by:
Isam Hasenin, P.E., C.B.O.,Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on March 19, 2008
AB-083  Requirements and Guidelines for the Seismic Design of New Tall Buildings using Non-Prescriptive Seismic-Design Procedures
NO. AB-083	:DATE	:March 25, 2008 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Permit Processing and IssuanceTITLE	:Requirements and Guidelines for the Seismic Design of New Tall Buildings using Non-Prescriptive Seismic-Design ProceduresPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to present requirements and guidelines for the seismic structural design and submittal documents for building permits for new tall buildings in San Francisco that use non- prescriptive seismic design procedures.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code, Section 104A.2.8 Alternate materials, design and methods of construction
SEAONC, 2007, Recommended Administrative Bulletin on the Seismic Design & Review of Tall Buildings Using Non-Prescriptive Procedures, prepared by Structural Engineers Association of Northern California (SEAONC) AB-083 Tall Buildings Task Group
ASCE, 2011, Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures (ASCE/SEI 7-10, Prepared by the Structural Engineering Institute of the American Society of Civil Engineers
2003 NEHRP Recommended Provisions For New Buildings And Other Structures Part 1: Provisions and Part 2: Commentary (FEMA 450)
SEAONC, 1999, Contractual Provisions to Address the Engineer’s Liability when Using Performance-Based Seismic Design, Structural Engineers Association of Northern California
SEAOC, 2001, “Seismology Committee Background and Position Regarding 1997 UBCEq. 30-7 and Drift,” Structural Engineers Association of California
(http://www.seaoc.org/seismpdfs/UBC/30_7.pdf)DISCUSSION	:
1.	SCOPE
This bulletin presents requirements and guidelines for seismic structural design and submittal documents for building permit for new tall buildings in San Francisco that use non-prescriptive seismic design procedures.
Commentary:  It is intended that buildings designed to the requirements and guidelines of this bulletin will have seismic performance at least equivalent to that intended of code-prescriptive seismic designs, consistent with the San Francisco Building Code sections indicated below. To demonstrate that a building design is capable of providing code equivalent seismic performance, a three-step procedure shall be performed as specified in Section 4 of this Administrative Bulletin. Intended code seismic performance can be found in the commentary of FEMA 450.

This bulletin intentionally contains both requirements, which are stated in mandatory language (e.g., “shall”) and guidelines, which use non-mandatory language.

This bulletin is not written to cover essential facilities.
For the purposes of this Administrative Bulletin, a non-prescriptive seismic design is one that takes exception to one or more of the prescriptive requirements of the San Francisco Building Code and Chapter 12 of ASCE/SEI 7-05 and the standards referenced therein, by invoking San Francisco Building Code, Section 104A.2.8, which allows alternative materials and methods of construction as approved by the Building Official.
For the purposes of this bulletin, tall buildings are defined as those with hn greater than 160 feet above average adjacent ground surface.
The height, hn is defined in the San Francisco Building Code as the height of Level n above the average level of the ground surface adjacent to the structure. Level n is permitted to be taken as the roof of the structure, excluding mechanical penthouses and other projections above the roof whose mass is small compared with the mass of the roof.
Procedures other than those presented herein may be acceptable pursuant to the approval of the Director of the Department of Building Inspection.
Commentary:  ASCE/SEI 7-10 Sections that discuss non-prescriptive or “alternative” seismic design procedures are reproduced below:

11.1.4 Alternate Materials and Methods of Construction. Alternate materials and methods of construction to those prescribed in the seismic requirements of this standard shall not be used unless approved by the authority having jurisdiction. Substantiating evidence shall be submitted demonstrating that the proposed alternate, for the purpose intended, will be at least equal in strength, durability, and seismic resistance.

12.1.1 Basic Requirements. …An approved alternative procedure shall not be used to establish the seismic forces and their distribution unless the corresponding internal forces and deformations in the members are determined using a model consistent with the procedure adopted.

San Francisco Building Code sections that discuss non-prescriptive or “alternative” seismic design procedures are reproduced below:

104A.2.8  Alternate materials, design and methods of construction. The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the use of any material, alternate design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided any alternate has been approved and its use authorized by the building official.

The building official may approve any such alternate, provided the building official finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the provisions of this code and that the material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code in suitability, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, safety and sanitation.

The building official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claims that may be made regarding its use. The details of any action granting approval of an alternate shall be recorded and entered in the files of the code enforcement agency.

1604.4 Analysis. Any system or method of construction to be used shall be based on a rational analysis in accordance with well-established principles of mechanics. Such analysis shall result in a system that provides a complete load path capable of transferring all loads and forces from their point of origin to the load-resisting elements.
2. 	STRUCTURAL DESIGN REVIEW
Structural Design Review shall be in accordance with AB-082. At the conclusion of the review, the Structural Design Reviewer shall provide a written statement that, in their professional opinion, the building elements under their review are equivalent in strength, durability, and seismic resistance of the building to those of a building designed according to the prescriptive provisions of the San Francisco Building Code.
3. 	SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
Project submittal documents shall be in accordance with the San Francisco Building Code and Department of Building Inspection interpretations, Administrative Bulletins, and policies. In addition, documents relevant to the Structural Design Review shall be submitted by the Engineer of Record to the Director and to the Structural Design Reviewer.
As early as practicable, the Engineer of Record shall submit to the Director an initial Seismic Design Criteria along with a description and initial drawings of the structure. The Seismic Design Criteria shall be consistent with the requirements of this bulletin, and shall be updated to incorporate issues resolved during the Structural Design Review process.
The Seismic Design Criteria shall describe the proposed building and structural system, proposed analysis methodology, and acceptance criteria. The Seismic Design Criteria shall include any proposed exceptions to the prescriptive provisions of the San Francisco Building Code, modeling parameters, material properties, drift limits, element force capacities and deformation capacities. The Seismic Design Criteria shall identify all exceptions to the San Francisco Building Code prescriptive requirements that the Engineer of Record proposes. The Seismic Design Criteria shall be subject to review by the Structural Design Reviewer and approval by the Director. A summary of the Engineer of Record’s final Seismic Design Criteria shall be included in the general notes of the structural drawings.
4. 	SEISMIC DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
The Engineer of Record shall evaluate the structure at the levels of earthquake ground motion as indicated in the subsections below.
If nonlinear response is anticipated under any of the Maximum Considered Earthquake (MCE) ground motions specified in Section 4.3, the Engineer of Record shall apply capacity design principles and design the structure to have a suitable ductile yielding mechanism, or mechanisms, under nonlinear lateral deformation. The code-level analysis shall be used to determine the required strength of the yielding actions. The Engineer of Record shall include in the Seismic Design Criteria all assumptions and factors used in the application of capacity design principles.
Commentary:  The purpose of each level of seismic evaluation is as follows:

The code-level evaluation of Section 4.1 is used to identify the exceptions being taken to the prescriptive requirements of the San Francisco Building Code and to define the minimum required strength and stiffness for earthquake resistance. Minimum strength is defined according to San Francisco Building Code minimum base shear equations, with a response modification coefficient R, proposed by the Engineer of Record, reviewed by the Structural Design Reviewer, and approved by the Director   Minimum stiffness is defined by requiring the design to meet San Francisco Building Code-specified drift limits, using traditional assumptions for effective stiffness. Providing a non-prescriptive seismic design with minimum strength and stiffness comparable to code- prescriptive designs helps produce seismic performance at least equivalent to the code. Minimizing the number of exceptions to prescriptive requirements also helps achieve this aim.

As indicated in Section 4.2, a service-level evaluation is required by this bulletin to demonstrate acceptable seismic performance for moderate earthquakes.

The MCE-level evaluation of Section 4.3 is intended to verify that the structure has an acceptably low probability of collapse under severe earthquake ground motions. The evaluation uses nonlinear response-history analysis to demonstrate an acceptable mechanism of nonlinear lateral deformation and to determine the maximum forces to be considered for structural elements and actions designed to remain elastic.
4.1  Code-Level Evaluation
The seismic structural design shall be performed in accordance with the prescriptive provisions of the San Francisco Building Code, except for those provisions specifically identified by the Engineer of Record in the Seismic Design Criteria as Code Exceptions.
Commentary:  Code exceptions that have typically been taken for non-prescriptive designs of tall buildings in high seismic design categories include exceeding the height limitations of ASCE/SEI 7-10 Table 12.2.1. Other exceptions, including provisions related to R, , 0, limitations on T, and various detailing requirements, may be considered at the discretion of the Director. The Engineer of Record is required to justify all exceptions to prescriptive code provisions. The scope of structural design review shall include all proposed code exceptions.
The lower limit of ASCE/SEI 7-10 Eq. 12.8-5 and 12.8-6 for the calculation of the Seismic Response Coefficient applies to the scaling process of ASCE/SEI 7-05 Section 12.9. The value of R used shall be indicated in the SeismicDesign Criteria, and shall not be greater than 8.5.
The Engineer of Record shall demonstrate that the structure meets the story drift ratio limitations of the San Francisco Building Code using a code-level response-spectrum analysis and the following requirements:
	a)	The design lateral forces used to determine the calculated drift need not include the minimum base shear limitation of ASCE/SEI 7-10 eq. 12.8-5 and 12.8-6.
	b)	Stiffness properties of non-prestressed concrete elements shall not exceed 0.5 times gross-section properties.
	c)	Foundation flexibility shall be considered, using recommendations provided by the Geotechnical Engineerof Record that are defined in the Seismic Design Criteria.
	d)	The analysis shall account for P-delta effects.
Commentary:  ASCE/SEI 7-10 requires the consideration of the minimum base shear of Eq. 12.8-5 and 12.8-6 for checking design story drifts relative to allowable story drifts. However, the consensus of SEAONC’s AB-083Task Group for this Administrative Bulletin, approved by the SEAONC Board, is that UBC Formula 30-7 (equivalent to ASCE/SEI 7-10 Eq. 12.8-6) need not be applied to the check of drift limits for tall buildings designed according to this bulletin, because the MCE-level Evaluation of Section 4.3 includes a check of drift for site-specific ground motions. Such ground motions are required to take account of near-fault and directivity effects. The consensus of the task group is that this is an appropriate and more explicit way of addressing the intended purpose of applying Formula 30-7 to the check of drift limits.

Actual concrete stiffness properties may vary significantly from the value of 0.5 times gross- section properties referenced for the code-level check of story drift limits. This assumption is specified to provide a consistent requirement for minimum building stiffness. This requirement is intended to lead to earthquake serviceability performance related to story drift that is at least comparable to that expected of prescriptively-designed tall buildings designed to the San Francisco Building Code.
For the deformation compatibility evaluation of critical non-structural elements, such as exterior curtain wall and cladding systems and egress stairways, the drift ratio demand shall be calculated using the minimum base shear limitations of ASCE/SEI 7-10 Eq. 12.8-5 and 12.8-6. In lieu of this requirement, these critical non-structural elements may be designed for drift ratios at the MCE-level.
4.2  Service-Level Evaluation
A service-level evaluation of the primary structural system is required to demonstrate acceptable, essentially elastic seismic performance at the service-level ground motion.
Commentary:  To ensure code-equivalent seismic performance, the Director is requiring a service-level evaluation for new tall buildings utilizing non-prescriptive design procedures.

There are circumstances where there is a reason to believe that the serviceability performance of the design wouldbe worse than that anticipated for a code-prescriptive design. Some of these circumstances have been identified as follows:

a)	Where the Engineer of Record has taken any exception to code-prescriptive requirements for non- structural elements (ASCE/SEI 7-10, Chapter 13)

b)	Where the stiffness representation of any structural element in the code-level evaluation is significantly less than the effective linear-elastic stiffness described in applicable research

c)	For a structure that exhibits disproportionably large drift or accelerations for ground motions less than the San Francisco Building Code Design Basis Ground Motion (not reduced by R).

While this bulletin does not require checking all non-structural elements at the service-level evaluation, it is expected that the building cladding will remain undamaged and that egress from the building will not be impeded when the building is subjected to the service-level ground motion.
For the purposes of this bulletin, the service-level ground motion shall be that having a 43-year mean return period (50% probability of exceedance in 30 years).
Structural models used in the service-level evaluation shall incorporate realistic estimates of stiffness and damping considering the anticipated levels of excitation and damage. The evaluation shall demonstrate that the elements being evaluated exhibit serviceable behavior.
Commentary:  While essentially elastic performance is required in the service-level ground motion, it is not the intent of this bulletin to require that a structure remain fully linear and elastic. It is permissible for the analysis to indicate minor yielding of ductile elements of the primary structural system, provided such results do not suggest appreciable permanent deformation in the elements, strength degradation, or significant damage to the elements requiring more than minor repair. It is permissible for the analysis to indicate minor and repairable cracking of concrete elements.

Where numerical analysis is used to demonstrate serviceability, the analysis model should represent element behavior that is reasonably consistent with the expected performance of the elements. In typical cases it may be suitable to use a linear response spectrum analysis, with appropriate stiffness and damping, and with the earthquake demands represented by a linear response spectrum corresponding to the service-level ground motion. Where response history analysis is used, the selection and scaling of ground motion time series should comply with the requirements of ASCE/SEI 7-10, Section 16.1.3, with the service-level response spectrum used instead of the design basis earthquake response spectrum, and with the design demand represented by the mean of calculated responses for not less than seven appropriately selected and scaled time series.

As expressed by SEAONC [1999], it should be understood “that the current state of knowledge and available technology is such that the design profession’s ability to accurately predict the earthquake performance of a specific building is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties.”  Actual performance may differ from intended performance.
4.3  Maximum Considered Earthquake-Level Evaluation
Ground Motion: The ground motion representation for this evaluation shall be the Maximum Considered Earthquake(MCE) as defined in ASCE/SEI 7-10, Chapter 21.
A suite of not less than seven pairs of appropriate horizontal ground motion time series shall be used in the analyses. The selection and scaling of these ground motion time series shall comply with the requirements of ASCE/SEI 7-10, Chapter 16, with the following modifications:
	a)	The MCE response spectrum shall be the basis for ground motion time series scaling instead of the design response spectrum.
	b)	Either amplitude-scaling procedures or spectrum-matching procedures may be used.
	c)	Where applicable, an appropriate number of the ground motion time series shall include near fault and directivity effects such as velocity pulses producing relatively large spectral ordinates at relatively long periods.
Commentary:  The procedures for selecting and scaling ground motion records, as presented here, represent the current state of practice. The procedures are written to retain some flexibility so that engineering judgment can be used to identify the best approach considering the unique characteristics of the site and the building.

Selection and scaling of earthquake ground motion records for design purposes is a subject of much current research. The Engineer of Record may wish to consider alternative approaches recently proposed; however, some of the proposed approaches have not been adequately tested on tall buildings so their adoption should only be considered with caution. Aspects of particular concern include the long vibration period of many tall buildings and the contributions of multiple vibration “modes” to key response quantities.

At near-fault sites, the average fault-normal response spectrum usually is larger than the average fault-parallel response spectrum due to the presence of a rupture directivity pulse in the fault- normal component of the ground motion. It is important to include in the suite of ground motions an appropriate number of motions that include near-fault and directivity effects so that design drift demands are appropriately determined, especially considering that Section 4.1 permits the design to be exempt from applying Equations 12.8-5 and 12.8-6 to drift calculations. If spectral matching is used, individual ground motion components should account for the distinction between fault-normal and fault-parallel hazard.
Mathematical Model:  The three-dimensional mathematical analysis model of the structure shall conform to ASCE/SEI 7-10 Section 12.7.3.
The analyses shall consider the interaction of all structural and non-structural elements that materially affect the linear and nonlinear response of the structure to earthquake motions, including elements not designated as part of the lateral-force-resisting system in the code-level analysis (Section 4.1).
Commentary: This requires explicit modeling of those parts of the structural and non-structural systems that affect the dynamic response of the building. In addition, the effect of building response on all materially affected parts of the building must be evaluated.
The stiffness properties of reinforced concrete shall consider the effects of cracking and other phenomena on initial stiffness.
Commentary: In addition to cracking, effective stiffness can be affected by other phenomena. These include bond slip, yield penetration, tension-shift associated with shear cracking, panel zone deformations, and other effects.
The effective initial stiffness of steel elements embedded in concrete shall include the effect of the embedded zone. For steel moment frame systems, the contribution of panel zone (beam- column joint) deformations shall be included.
The Engineer of Record shall identify any structural elements for which demands for any of the response-history runs are within a range for which significant strength degradation could occur, and shall demonstrate that these effects are appropriately considered in the dynamic analysis.
Commentary: For typical situations, element strength degradation of more than 20% of peak strength should be considered significant.
P- effects that include all the building dead load shall be included explicitly in the nonlinear response history analyses.
Documentation submitted for Structural Design Reviewer review shall clearly identify which elements are modeled linearly and which elements are modeled nonlinearly. For elements that are modeled as nonlinear elements, submitted documentation shall include suitable laboratory test results or analyses that justify the hysteretic propertiesrepresented in the model.
The properties of elements in the analysis model shall be determined considering earthquake plus expected gravity loads. In the absence of alternative information, gravity load shall be based on the load combination 1.0D + Lexp, where D is the service dead load and Lexp is the expected service live load.
Commentary: In typical cases it will be sufficient to take Lexp = 0.2L, where L is the code- prescribed live loadwithout live load reduction.
The foundation strength and stiffness contribution to the building seismic response shall be represented in the model. The foundation strength and stiffness characterization shall be consistent with the strength and stiffness properties of the soils at the site, considering both strain rate effects and soil deformation magnitude.
Analysis Procedure:  Three-dimensional nonlinear response history (NLRH) analyses of the structure shall be performed. Inclusion of accidental torsion is not required. When the ground motion components represent site- specific fault-normal ground motions and fault-parallel ground motions, the components shall be applied to the three- dimensional mathematical analysis model according to the orientation of the fault with respect to the building. When the ground motion components represent random orientations, the components shall be applied to the model at orientation angles that are selected randomly; individual ground motion pairs need not be applied in multiple orientations.
Commentary:  Three-dimensional analyses are required to represent the inherent torsional response of the building to earthquake ground shaking. This is done by including in the NLRH model the actual locations and distribution of the building mass, stiffness, and strength. Accidental torsion is not required to be included in the NLRH analyses. (Accidental torsion is required for the code-level analysis of Section 4.1.)
The Engineer of Record shall report how damping effects are included in the NLRH analyses. The equivalent viscous damping level shall not exceed 5%, unless adequately substantiated by the Engineer of Record.
Commentary: The effects of damping in an analysis depend on the type of damping model implemented. Some models may over-damp higher modes or have other undesirable effects.
For each horizontal ground motion pair, the structure shall be evaluated for the following load combination:
	1.0D + Lexp + 1.0E
Alternative load combinations, if used, shall be adequately substantiated by the Engineer of Record.
Demands for ductile actions shall be taken not less than the mean value obtained from the NLRH. Demands for low- ductility actions (e.g., axial and shear response of columns and shear response of walls) shall consider the dispersion of the values obtained from the NLRH.
Commentary:  In typical cases the demand for low-ductility actions can be defined as the mean plus one standard deviation of the values obtained from the NLRH. Procedures for selecting and scaling ground motions, and for defining the demands for low-ductility actions, should be defined and agreed to early in the review process.
Acceptance Criteria: Calculated force and deformation demands on all elements required to resist lateral and gravityloads shall be checked to ensure they do not exceed element force and deformation capacities. This requirement applies to those elements designated as part of the lateral-force-resisting system in the code-level analysis (Section 4.1), as well as those elements not designated as part of the lateral-force-resisting system in the code-level analysis but deemed to be materially affected.
Commentary: Elements not designated as part of the lateral-force-resisting system in the code- level analysis (gravity systems) may be subjected to substantial deformations and forces, including axial forces accumulated over many stories, as they interact with the primary lateral- force-resisting system. Non-structural elements such as cladding are evaluated according to code requirements. This bulletin does not require checking non-structural elements at the MCE level.
The Engineer of Record shall identify the structural elements or actions that are designed for nonlinear seismic response. All other elements and actions shall be demonstrated by analysis to remain essentially elastic.
Commentary:  Essentially elastic response may be assumed for elements when force demands are less than design strengths. Design strengths for non-ductile behaviors (e.g., shear and compression) of these essentially elastic elements are defined as nominal strengths, based on specified material properties, multiplied by strength reduction factors as prescribed in the SFBC. Design strengths for ductile behaviors of these essentially elastic elements are defined as nominal strengths, based on expected material properties, multiplied by ø=1.0. Alternative approaches to demonstrating essentially elastic response may be acceptable where appropriately substantiated by the Engineer of Record.
For structural elements or actions that are designed for nonlinear seismic response, the Engineer of Record shall evaluate the adequacy of individual elements and their connections to withstand the deformation demands. Force and deformation capacities shall be based on applicable documents or representative test results, or shall be substantiated by analyses using expected material properties.
The average result, over the NLRH analyses, of peak story drift ratio shall not exceed 0.03 for any story.
All procedures and values shall be included in the Seismic Design Criteria and are subject to review by the Structural Design Reviewer and approval by the Director.
Originally signed by:
Isam Hasenin, P.E., C.B.O.,
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on March 19, 2008
AB-084  Guidelines for the Structural Review of Continuous Tiedown Systems Used to Resist Overturning of Light-Framed Wood Shear Walls
NO. AB-084	:DATE	:November 20, 2013 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references) 
(Supersedes AB-084 dated June 5, 2012)SUBJECT	:Plan Check; InspectionTITLE	:Guidelines for the Structural Review of Continuous Tiedown Systems Used to Resist Overturning of Light-Framed Wood Shear WallsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to establish guidelines for the structural design, analysis, and plan check review and approval of continuous tiedown systems used to resist overturning forces within light-framed wood shear walls caused by wind and seismic loads. This Administrative Bulletin is not applicable to light-framed wood shear walls framed with cold formed steel studs, nor to shear walls sheathed with material other than wood structural panels.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code (SFBC)
2013 California Building Code (CBC)
Product Standard PS 1-95 (for Construction and Industrial Plywood) of the United States Department of Commerce, and National Institute of Science and Technology Calculation of Diaphragm Action, an Engineering Standard of the International Code Council
Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA-450-1/2003 Ed., NEHRP Recommended Provisions for Seismic Regulations for New Buildings and Other Structures, Part 1: Provisions
Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA-450-2/2003 Ed., NEHRP Recommended Provisions for Seismic Regulations for New Buildings and Other Structures, Part 2: Commentary
Nelson, R. F., Patel, S. T., “Continuous Tie-Down Systems...for Wood Panel Shear Walls in Multi Story Structures,” Structure, March 2003, pages 18 - 20
Ghosh, A., Pryor, S., Arevalo, R., “Multi-Story Light-Frame Construction, Understanding Continuous Tiedown Systems,” Structure, June 2006, pages 14 - 19
ICC Evaluation Service, “AC316 Acceptance Criteria for Shrinkage Compensating Devices, Effective July 1, 2010”DISCUSSION	:Light-framed wood shear walls, when incorporated into a structure’s lateral force resisting system, will experience overturning forces arising from wind and seismic loads on the structure. These overturning forces are typically resisted by the use of tiedown devices that anchor the ends of the shear walls to the foundation. The tiedown system shall either be ICC listed or meet all the requirements of this administrative bulletin.
A “conventional” tiedown system typically utilizes cold-formed metal hardware bolted to the wood end posts of the shear wall and anchored to the foundation. Tensile overturning forces are carried by the wood end posts. A”continuous tiedown” system utilizes a continuous or coupled rod or cable assembly comprising bearing plates, shrinkage compensating devices, and couplers, wherein tensile overturning forces are carried by the rod(s) or cable(s) not the wood end posts.
Continuous tiedown systems are not explicitly addressed by current prescriptive code requirements.
Requirements: 
Plan check review and approval of continuous tiedown systems for any project shall be on a case-by-case basis in accordance with this Administrative Bulletin. The following requirements shall be the basis for plan check review and approval of continuous tiedown systems used within light-framed wood shear wall systems:
	1.	Shear walls shall be designed to comply with the drift requirements of ASCE 7-10 Section 12.8.6. Shear wall displacements shall be computed in accordance with CBC Section 2305.3. The component “da” of Equation 23-2 in CBC Section 2305.3 shall include, but not be limited to, elongation of the rod or cable, and deformations and displacements of shrinkage compensating devices, coupling hardware and steel bearing plates.
	2.	In a multi-story shear wall installation, the continuous tiedown system shall be restrained by bearing plates at each story of the multi-story shear wall. Skipping of stories, where bearing plates are omitted at intermediate stories, resulting in multiple stories being tied together, is prohibited. Shrinkage compensating devices shall be provided at each story of the shear wall.
	3.	The computed rod or cable elongation or stretch, together with computed deformations of shrinkage compensating device in compliance with ICC AC 316, coupling hardware steel bearing plate and crushing of wood top plates, within any story under strength level (Load and Resistance Factor Design) short-term duration loading, such as wind or earthquake loads, shall not exceed 0.250 inch, andfor working stress level (Allowable Stress Design) short-term loading, they shall not exceed 0.179 inch. Elongation or stretch shall be computed as the product PL/EAe, where P is the axial load (pounds), L is the initial rod or cable length at the story under consideration (inches), E is the rod or cable modulus of elasticity (psi), and Ae is the effective tensile cross sectional area of the rod or cable (in2).
	4.	Calculations demonstrating compliance with the foregoing shall be provided for plan check review.
	5.	Construction documents, signed and sealed by the engineer of record for the design of the building, shall specify the particular proprietary system or systems.
	6.	Any modification to the tiedown system proposed after a building permit has been approved shall require filing of a new permit application documenting the proposed modification. Plan check review of the proposed modification shall be in accordance with the requirements of this Administrative Bulletin.
	7.	Mixing of conventional and continuous tiedown systems within shear walls along a common line is prohibited.
	8.	In addition to other inspections required by SFBC 1705, special inspection of continuous tiedown systems shall be provided. In addition to structural observations required by SFBC 1704.5, the engineer of record for the design of the building shall provide structural observation of continuous tiedown installations, including shear wall boundary nailing, shear wall end post sizes, bearing plates, couplers, shrinkage compensating devices, and anchor bolts, to verify conformance of the installed tiedown system to the structural design intent.
Signed by:
Tom C. Hui, S.E., C.B.O.,
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on May 18, 2011, revision approved 11/20/2013
AB-088  Collection and Storage of Trash, Recycling, and Compostable Materials
NO. AB-088	:DATE	:March 25, 2008 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Resource ConservationTITLE	:Collection and Storage of Trash, Recycling, and Compostable MaterialsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to provide standards and procedures for local implementation of the California Solid Waste Reuse and Recycling Access Act of 1991, and the related adopted Model Ordinance, which require that local jurisdictions enforce regulations to assure that adequate areas for collecting and loading for recyclable materials are provided in development projects. Under these regulations, cities are mandated to enforce requirements for certain new development projects and building alterations as detailed below.REFERENCES	:California Public Resources Code, Division 30, Part 3, Chapter 18, California Solid Waste Reuse and Recycling Access Act of 1991.
California Integrated Waste Management Board, Model Ordinance Relating to Areas for Collecting and Loading Recyclable Materials in Development Projects, Resolution No. 93-57.
2013 San Francisco Building Code, Section 106A.3.3, #24, Information to be provided on plans to determine compliance with codes and regulations.
2013 San Francisco Building Code, Section 3401.2, MaintenanceDISCUSSION	:The City and County of San Francisco is required to enforce the state code regarding Solid Waste Reuse and Recycling. The enforcement of this state code will help meet locally adopted waste diversion goals of 75% by 2010 and zero waste to landfill by 2020.
This Administrative Bulletin details procedures for local enforcement of the requirements of the Model Ordinance adopted by the California Integrated Waste Management Board, Resolution 93-57, which applies to the City and County of San Francisco in the absence of a locally adopted ordinance regarding Areas for Collecting and Loading Recyclable Materials in Development Projects. State law prohibits the issuance of permits for certain development projects after July 1, 2005 unless the provisions of this Model Ordinance are met.
For the purpose of enforcement of these regulations in San Francisco, recycled materials are those which are diverted or recovered from the solid-waste stream. The word trash refers to materials that are non-recyclable and non- compostable.
General Requirements:
Applicability
As detailed in the Model Ordinance, effective July 1, 2005, the following projects or portions of projects are required to provide adequate areas for collecting and loading recyclable materials:
	•	Any new project for which a building permit is required for a commercial, industrial or institutional building, marina, or residential building having five or more living units, where solid waste is collected and loaded;
	•	Any new public facility where solid waste is collected and loaded, and any improvements for areas of a public facility used for collecting and loading solid waste;
	•	A new subdivision or tract of single-family detached homes if solid waste is collected and loaded in a location that services five or more living units;
	•	Any one of the above types of projects that is existing to which an addition is made that adds 30 percent or more to the existing floor area of the project;
	•	Any one of the above types of projects that is existing to which multiple additions are made over a one- year period that cumulatively add 30 percent or more to the existing floor area of the project;
	•	Any one of the above types of projects, occupied by multiple tenants, to which one or more tenant improvements are made under building permit over a one-year period by any one tenant that adds 30 percent or more to that tenant’s leased area, in which case that tenant’s leased area shall be provided with sufficient recycling areas;
Solid-waste collection methods and storage
In accordance with the City and County of San Francisco’s solid-waste diversion goals, the amount of space provided for the collection and storage of recyclable and compostable materials shall be sufficient to allow recovery of 100 percent of the facility’s solid-waste materials. Space shall be sufficient to accommodate containers consistent with both current methods and percentages of solid-waste storage and removal, and with projected needswhen full solid-waste diversion goals are met.
All areas designated for the collection and loading of recyclable and compostable materials shall be integrated into the design and, when appropriate, the structure of the project. Areas for recyclable and compostable materials shall be at least as convenient and usable as spaces provided for non-recyclable trash disposal, and shall be located in the same areas whenever possible. When separate locations must be provided due to space constraints, the locations for collection of recyclable and compostable materials shall be at least as convenient as trash disposal locations.
Each dwelling unit in a covered project shall include areas within the dwelling unit designed and designated for storage of recyclable and compostable materials.
Any chute system for solid-waste disposal in a covered project must be designed for equal convenience to all users to separate the three waste streams of trash, recycling and compostable materials.
Guidance on Recycling Design
Guidance in providing adequate areas for collecting and loading of recyclable and compostable materials is available:
	•	The Department of the Environment (415-355-3700) will provide guidance to project sponsors regarding design for areas for collecting and loading of recyclable and compostable materials;
	•	The City’s permitted refuse haulers will provide assistance in determining appropriate collection, storage and loading locations, dimensions and other requirements (for contact information please call the Department of the Environment at 415-355-3700) ;
	•	The California Integrated Waste Management Board, Planning and Assistance Division can provide a “Recycling Space Allocation Guide” and other assistance (916-255- 2385). This publication is available at www.ciwmb.ca.gov/publications/localasst/31000012.doc.
	•	US Green Building Council provides recycling area guidelines in various publications. Information is available on the USGBC website at www.usgbc.org/resources. See attachment to this bulletin for an excerpt of USGBC recommendations.
Procedures:
Submittals
For each covered project, the submittal documents accompanying the permit application shall provide sufficient detail to assure compliance with these requirements, including the following specific information:
	1.	Size and location of storage, collection and loading areas for all recyclable, compostable and trash materials, including space within individual dwelling units.
	2.	Type, size and number of collection containers for all recyclable, compostable and trash materials.
	3.	Type of proposed material handling equipment (e.g. compactors, balers, tippers, turntable systems, etc.)
	4.	Collection routes to conveniently access all recyclable, compostable and trash loading areas, including sufficient vertical and horizontal maneuvering clearances for collection vehicles.
	5.	Type and number of chutes proposed for recyclable, compostable and trash materials.
	6.	Signage for proposed collection, storage, and loading areas and containers.
	7.	Path-of-travel and other access for persons with disabilities to collection facilities, when required.
	8.	If not all in one location in the submittal documents, an index of locations in the submittal documents of the above required information.
Review
Submittal documents will be reviewed by Department of Building Inspection staff, who may consult with staff of other agencies such as Department of the Environment.
When approved as part of a building permit, requirements for adequate areas for collecting and loading of recyclable, compostable and trash materials become part of the required building construction.
Maintenance of facilities
Maintenance of facilities designed for collection, storage and loading of recyclable, compostable and trash materials is required under San Francisco Building Code, Section 3401.2.
Signed by:
Isam Hasenin, P.E., C.B.O., Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on March 19, 2008
Attachment A:  Model Ordinance
Attachment B:  LEED-NC Version 2.2 excerpt
AB-090  Destination-Based Elevator Control System Requirements
NO. AB-090	:DATE	:March 27, 2010 (Updated 01/01/2014 for code references)SUBJECT	:Disability AccessTITLE	:Destination-Based Elevator Control System RequirementsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Bulletin is to establish acceptable design criteria and standards for Destination-Based Elevator Control Systems.REFERENCES	:2013  San Francisco Building Code, based on the 2013 California Building Code
- Section 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, design and methods of construction
- Section 202, Definitions, Equivalent Facilitation
- Sections 11B-206.6 & 11B-407, Elevators
- Section 11B-7.3, Signs				
- Sections 11B-204 & 11B-307, Protruding objects
ICC/ANSI A117.1-2003 American National Standard: Accessible and Usable Buildings and FacilitiesDISCUSSION	:Destination-based elevator control systems are proposed as performance- based alternatives to traditional elevator control systems. These systems are desirable for many projects to increase elevator efficiency resulting in reduced wait and travel times, to provide high standards of building sustainability including energy efficiency, and to allow flexibility in elevator operation and system design. Adopted area plans for development of the City and County of San Francisco rely on high-density buildings in certain areas of the City to meet planning goals; elevators with destination-based control systems allow higher usage efficiencies, helping achieve those City goals.
The codes regulating elevator control systems prescriptively detail requirements for traditional elevator control systems, for example size and location of car and hall buttons. These prescriptive requirements lead to standardized installations that allow all users to be able to readily understand and use elevator systems, and provide for accessible operation by persons with disabilities. Alternate designs that provide equivalent performance to the prescriptive requirements of the codes may be approved on a case-by-case basis administratively if such alternate designs provide a code equivalent of that prescribed in the code for suitability, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, safety, sanitation, and accessibility for persons with disabilities.
Destination-based elevator systems must meet all of the code requirements for conventional elevator systems except for elements specifically addressed in this bulletin. Such elevator systems will be considered to have met the requirements for approval of alternate design through “equivalent facilitation” if the specific conditions listed in this bulletin are met. Any proposal for approval of a destination-based elevator control system that does not meet these conditions, or that fails to meet any other prescriptive requirement not addressed in this Administrative Bulletin, may be considered for administrative approval by the Department of Building Inspection on a case-by-case basis.
In cases where there are proposals substantially different from the alternatives prescribed in this bulletin, such proposals shall go to the Access Appeals Commission. A proposed destination- based elevator control system meeting the specific conditions of this Administrative Bulletin will not typically be required to have such determination of “equivalent facilitation” ratified by the Access Appeals Commission, and will be determined to have met requirements as a “Local Equivalency”.
DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Administrative Bulletin the following definitions shall apply:
Active signage:   Electronic signage, such as an LCD display, that displays visual information to the user, and that can be changed or reprogrammed.
Keypad:  Telephone-style user input device with accessibility function key, and may include additional floor keys.
Keypad console:  The hall user interface, includes keypad, visual display, speaker, and may include other control keys, such as individual floor designation keys, and other components such as access card readers.
Passive signage:  Static, unchanging signage.
ALTERNATE DESTINATION-BASED ELEVATOR CONTROL SYSTEM DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
Application
The installation of new and certain alterations of existing destination-based elevator control systems require building permits. This bulletin applies to newly installed, altered, or modernized destination-based elevator control systems in new and existing buildings for which building permits are issued after the effective date of this bulletin. Alterations to which this bulletin applies include changes in hardware, software, signaling, and operation that affect the user experience, but exclude maintenance, repair, adjustment, and in-kind replacement of equipment.
As an alternate to meeting the prescriptive requirements of the San Francisco Building Code, the following features shall be provided.
Section I:  Keypad Console
A.	General
Keypad consoles shall include an accessible keypad, a visual display with active signage, and a speech output speaker.
	1)	All keypad consoles shall be accessible.
	2)	Keypad consoles on floors where there is a building entry, including entry from parking and transfer levels, shall have the word “Elevator” in 5/8 inch (16 mm) high raised characters and in Braille on or immediately adjoining the faceplate of the keypad console.
	3)	Keypad consoles on floors where there is a building entry, including entry from parking and transfer levels, shall indicate the floors served in raised lettering and in Braille.
	4)	Keypad consoles and keys shall have a non-glare finish.
	5)	All components of keypad consoles, including keypad, display, and speaker shall be adjacent and not more than six inches (152 mm) apart. The display shall be located above the keypad.
	6)	If a security system or other form of access control system is in use, when accessible function key is pressed speech prompts shall be provided such as, “Present security credential.”
	7)	Any additional features provided at the keypad console shall also be made accessible.
B.	Location
	1)	Wall-mounted keypad consoles shall be provided at each floor elevator lobby for each group of elevators, located between elevator entrances in a location similar to conventional elevator hall stations.
	2)	Additional keypad consoles outside the immediate elevator lobby may be wall-, pedestal- or kiosk- mounted.
	3)	Keypad consoles outside the immediate elevator lobby shall provide a short verbal direction to the assigned elevator, such as, “Elevator A to left.”
C.	Keypad
	1)	Keypads shall include a 12-key ascending telephone keypad arrangement per ICC/ANSI. Keypads shall have a Star in the lower left corner and a Minus Sign in the lower right corner. The Star key shall dispatch an elevator to the main egress level from any other floor.
	2)	Keys shall have white characters on a black surface.
	3)	Keypad consoles shall have no sharp corners or edges.
	4)	All console keys shall be not less than 3/4 inch (19 mm) in the smallest dimension, be raised a minimum of 1/8 inch (3 mm), have square shoulders, and be activated by mechanical, detectable motion.
	5)	Keys or the keyboard console shall be sloped upward at 15 to 25 degrees from the vertical plane, except that the slope may be reduced or other measures may be taken such that the keypad does not become a “protruding object” as defined by Section 11B-307.
	6)	Keypads shall have an Accessibility Function key. That key shall be located directly below the numeric keys, shall be a rectangle or square shape, and shall be of a size that is larger than the numeric keys so that it may be clearly distinguished from other keys.
	7)	The Accessibility Function key shall include the International Symbol of Accessibility (ISA) and the standard, raised equilateral triangle (three-dot) symbol for access complying with ICC/ANSI standards.
	8)	Any keys in addition to the Accessibility Function key and the 12-key keypad shall comply with items 1 through 7 above and shall be arranged in columns to the right of the keypad with horizontal spacing 1.5 times the horizontal spacing between the numeric keys and with the same vertical spacing as the numeric keys. Such additional keys shall be labeled with raised white lettering on a black surface and in Braille, with Braille preferably located to the left of the raised lettering.
D.	Active Visual Display
	1)	Active visual displays shall provide a contrast ratio of at least 200:1 with light characters on a dark, solid, static background. Visual display of elevator assignment shall be illuminated for a minimum of 5 seconds upon activation of the Accessibility Function key.
	2)	Character font, size and other visual characteristics shall meet ICC/ANSI requirements.
E.	Keypad Console Speech Output
	1)	For keypad consoles on floors where there is a building entry or where the elevator group can be entered for the first time, including entry from parking and transfer levels, when the Accessibility Function key is pressed, a verbal announcement of floors served by the elevator group shall be provided.
	2)	After the Accessibility Function key is pressed, a speech prompt shall direct the user to enter a destination floor.
	3)	When a destination floor has been entered on the keypad or through an access control system, a speech prompt will, within two seconds, indicate the destination floor that was entered and will indicate which elevator is assigned to this destination.
	4)	The keypad console shall make an audible indication of an invalid key press sequence.
	5)	Auditory volume shall be at least 10dBA above ambient sound level, but not more than 80 dBA. At the ground floor elevator lobby, auditory volume shall be maintained at the required volume by an automatic gain control (AGC) or shall be set at not less than 75 dBa. Speech output shall be measured 36 inches (915 mm) in front of the console.
	6)	Auditory speech shall be clearly intelligible. Assessment of speech intelligibility shall be conducted at times of day when ambient noise volume is at its highest.
	7)	When intelligibility is not demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Department of Building Inspection, speech messages announcing the elevator letter designations shall include the use of the International Phonetic Alphabet, such as, “Elevator D Delta.”
Section II.	Wayfinding to Designated Elevator
A.	General
In addition to the requirements of Section I above, wayfinding shall be made accessible as required below.
B.	Floor and Route
	1)	Floor shall be consistently designated and routes from consoles to elevator cabs shall be as direct as practical.
	2)	Floor Designations in Newly Constructed Buildings
		a)	Floor designations shall begin with ‘one’ or ‘zero’ at the ground floor and shall increase by one for each successive higher floor.
		b)	The first floor below the ground floor shall be designated ‘minus one’ (–1), and shall decrease by one for each successive lower floor.
		c)	Floors shall not be designated by alphabetic letters such as ‘M’ or ‘Mezzanine,’ ‘P1' or ‘Parking Level 1,’ etc.
	3)	Elevator Assignment Adjacency
An elevator adjacent to the keypad console and on the same side of the lobby shall be assigned unless the adjacent elevator(s) is (are) out of service.
C.	Active Signage
	1)	Visual Annunciators
		a)	There shall be, adjacent to and either above or next to each elevator entrance, or on the elevator car door jamb, a visual annunciator that includes the elevator designation letter shall illuminate upon car arrival or earlier.
		b)	In newly constructed buildings, a visual annunciator shall be installed at a height of at least 80 inches (2032 mm), measured to the centerline, above finished floor with a minimum character height of 4 inches (102 mm).
		c)	In existing buildings, a visual annunciator with a minimum character height of 2-1/2 inches (64 mm) shall be installed at a height of at least 72 inches (1829 mm) above finished floor.
	2) 	Speech Annunciator
		a)	There shall be, adjacent to each elevator entrance or on the car door frame, a speech annunciator.
		b)	Speech annunciators shall comply with the requirements of Section I-E, Keypad Console Speech Output, above.
	3) 	Floor Destination Indicator
		a)	There shall be on each elevator car door jamb an active floor destination display.
		b)	The minimum character height for elevator car door jamb display shall be 9/16 inch (14 mm) minimum for floor destinations and 3/8 inch (10 mm) for other text.
D.	Passive Signage
	1)	Doorjamb Marking
Elevators shall be designated by complying doorjamb markings to show both floor number and car identification. Such elevator identification shall be located immediately below the floor number designation. Each elevator shall be identified by a single letter, in ascending alphabetical order, assigned clockwise from the main entrance to the ground floor elevator lobby, except that for large group installations or special elevator lobby arrangements, other clearly understandable designations may be approved on a case-by-case basis. Elevator systems with more than 26 elevators may use alpha-numeric designations, such as ‘A1.’  All doorjamb car letter markings shall conform to the specific floor number requirements, including size, of the California Building Code, including Section 1116B.
	2)	Additional Building Signage
Passive signage for directional information and other identification shall conform to the minimum requirements of Section 11B-216.3 (Directional and informational signs), 11B-703.5 (Visual characters) and ICC/ANSI, with characters not less than 5/8 inch (16 mm) in height and in standard raised lettering and in Braille. The intent of this requirement is that all signs provided for sighted persons shall also be provided in an accessible format.
Section III.	Elevator Car Controls and Information
	1)	The elevator car shall not have non-functional, exposed floor buttons.
	2)	There shall be a speech announcement inside the car indicating the floor served, with the announcement to be completed prior to the initiation of door opening, preferably at the start of deceleration.
Procedure for Application of these Requirements
Project sponsors wishing to apply the equivalencies or alternatives detailed in this bulletin must fill out and submit with any permit submittal documents a Request for Approval of Local Equivalency form. Details of procedures for the review of local equivalencies and appeal of departmental determinations may be found in Administrative Bulletin AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local Equivalencies.
Signed by:
Vivian L. Day, C.B.O.			
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on March 17, 2010
Attachment A: Request for Local Equivalency
AB-094  Definition and Design Criteria for Voluntary Seismic Upgrade of Soft- Story, Type V (Wood-Frame) Buildings
NO. AB-094	:DATE	:April 13, 2010 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references) 
(Revises bulletin dated May 26, 2009) SUBJECT	:Permit Review and OperationTITLE	:Definition and Design Criteria for Voluntary Seismic Upgrade of Soft- Story, Type V (Wood-Frame) BuildingsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Bulletin is to establish definitions and acceptable design criteria for voluntary seismic upgrade projects for soft-story Type V (wood- frame) buildings that may qualify for various incentives, such as expedited permit review and fee adjustments.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 1613, Earthquake Loads
- Section 3401.10, Lateral Force Design requirements for Existing Buildings
- Section 1604.11, Minimum Lateral Forces for Existing Buildings
City and County of San Francisco Ordinance 54-10, Seismic Strengthening of Soft- Story, Wood-Frame Buildings
AB-004, Priority Permit Processing Guidelines
2012 International Existing Building Code, Appendix Chapter A4
2013 California Historical Building Code, Chapter 8-7 and 8-8
ASCE/SEI Standard 31-03, Seismic Evaluation of Existing Buildings
ASCE/SEI Standard 41-06, Seismic Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings
Ordinance 54-10, Seismic Strengthening of Soft-Story, Wood- Frame BuildingsDISCUSSION	:A clear definition of “soft-story Type V (wood-frame) building” and the basic design criteria for seismic upgrades to such buildings are essential to the permit submittal and approval of projects that wish to take advantage of City-sponsored voluntary incentives to implement seismic upgrades of potentially seismically hazardous buildings.
Permits for voluntary structural work that do not reference meeting a specific code standard or that do not qualify for incentives for voluntary seismic upgrade work permit processing may meet any level of upgrade if such work does not increase the hazard of the building.
Chapter 34B of the San Francisco Building Code requires the mandatory retrofit of Soft Story Type V (wood-frame) buildings, built prior to 1978 with 2 or more stories over a weak story and having 5 or more residential units. Buildings falling within the scope of SFBC Chapter 34B are not eligible for the incentives offered in this bulletin. The application and incentives of AB-094 apply to buildings with 4 or fewer residential units or other occupancy classifications.
IMPLEMENTATION
Building owners who wish to take advantage of voluntary seismic upgrade incentives must meet the definition of a soft-story Type V (wood-frame) building and must comply with the retrofit standards as detailed below.
DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Administrative Bulletin the following definitions shall apply:
Soft-story Type V (wood-frame) building means a building that meets the following criteria:
	A.	a Type V (wood-frame) building as defined in the San Francisco Building Code, and
	B.	was constructed prior to May 21, 1973, and
	C.	has a ground floor (1st story) level in which
		a.	at least 50% of the floor area of the ground floor is used for Occupancy Classifications A (assembly), B (business), M (mercantile), S (storage, open or enclosed parking garages), or U (private garages), or
		b.	the building has been determined to have either a Weak Story or Soft Story deficiency when evaluated using the ASCE 31 Tier 2 procedure, or
		c.	the building has been determined to have a soft-story deficiency based on engineering analysis acceptable to the Building Official.
RETROFIT STANDARDS
The standards to be applied to the seismic upgrade of soft-story wood-framed buildings in order to qualify for voluntary upgrade incentives shall be one of the following:
	A.	Meets the requirements of Appendix Chapter A4 of the 2012 International Existing Building Code, IEBC, or
	B.	Meets the requirements of ASCE 41 for the Partial Rehabilitation Objective (Section 1.4.3) (Life Safety Performance Level: S-3) in the BSE-1 earthquake hazard level, or
	C.	Meets any other alternate rational design and/or construction methodology that demonstrates compliance with the intent of San Francisco Building Code Section 1604.11. For qualified historic buildings, seismic upgrade designs may use the provisions and analysis techniques referenced in the California Historical Building Code, Chapter 8-7, Structural Regulations, and Chapter 8-8, Archaic Materials and Methods of Construction to assist in meeting the retrofit standards.
For the purposes of this bulletin, mitigation of the soft-story conditions at the ground floor (1st story) shall be considered the part of the voluntary soft-story wood-frame upgrade work eligible for incentives. Additional seismic upgrade work may be undertaken on the floors above the ground floor; however such additional seismic retrofit work is not considered part of the voluntary soft-story upgrade work and will be subject to standard permitting requirements.
PERMIT PROCESSING
Submittal Documents and Building Permit Application
Building permit applications for voluntary, soft-story Type V (wood-frame) building upgrade work must clearly state the intention to qualify for voluntary incentives in the Project Description portion of the building permit application form. Submittal documents should include the following:
	A.	Dimensioned plans showing all exterior walls, interior partitions and any lateral load-resisting, or plans showing Occupancy Classifications and uses of the ground floor if that is the method of qualifying as a soft-story building under this Administrative Bulletin, and
	B.	A photograph of the building exterior, and
	C.	Structural upgrade plans and necessary supporting calculations and documents prepared by a licensed design professional showing how seismic upgrade will meet the standards adopted in this Administrative Bulletin. Included in these submittal documents should be a listing of archaic materials and values for those materials, if these are to be used as part of the lateral force resisting system.
Expedited Permit Processing			
Building permit applications for voluntary soft-story wood-frame seismic retrofit will be expedited as authorized under AB-004 and will be tracked by the Department of Building Inspection for reporting purposes.
Signed by:
Vivian L. Day, C.B.O.			April 21, 2010
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Attachment: Excerpts from Ordinance 54-10, Seismic Strengthening of Soft-Story, Wood-Frame Buildings
AB-098  Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements for Wood-Frame Residential Buildings with Three or More Dwelling Units
NO. AB-098	:DATE	:July 2, 2012 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Permit Review and OperationsTITLE	:Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements for Wood-Frame Residential Buildings with Three or More Dwelling UnitsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Bulletin is to establish policy for interpreting the San Francisco Building Code regarding post-earthquake damage retrofit triggers for wood-frame residential buildings with three or more dwelling units and to detail the scope and criteria for such triggered retrofits.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 3401.10, Lateral force design requirements for existing buildings
- Section 3402, Definition of Disproportionate Damage [Pending code revision]
- Section 3402, Definition of Substantial Structural Damage
- Section 3405, Repairs
2013 California Historical Building Code, CCR Title Part 8
2012 International Existing Building Code, Appendix Chapter A4, or 2009 International Existing Building Code, Appendix Chapter A4 with NCSEA/SEAOC amendments
ASCE/SEI Standard 31-03, Seismic Evaluation of Existing Buildings
ASCE/SEI Standard 41-06, Seismic Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings, with Supplement 1
California Health and Safety Code, Section 17920.3
CAPSS Report, Here Today—Here Tomorrow: The Road to Earthquake Resilience in San Francisco, Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements (ATC-52-4 Report), http://www.sfcapss.org/PDFs/PostQuakeRepair.pdfDISCUSSION	:San Francisco Building Code Section 3405.2 triggers seismic evaluation, and possibly retrofit of buildings, when earthquake-related damage reaches the level of “substantial structural damage to vertical elements of the lateral- force-resisting system.” Substantial structural damage is defined in Section 3402 as, in essence, a loss of lateral capacity of 20 percent or more in any horizontal direction. The code does not give specific rules for identifying a 20-percent capacity loss nor guidance as to how to calculate capacity loss, so implementation of these code provisions relies on interpretation by the Department of Building Inspection. This Bulletin presents the Department’s interpretation of 20-percent lateral capacity loss in terms based on visual indicators of such damage, and details the scope of required retrofit for buildings that exhibit earthquake-induced substantial structural damage.
In addition to substantial structural damage, San Francisco Building Code Section 3405.4 triggers structural evaluation and possibly retrofit when earthquake-related damage reaches the level of disproportionate damage, which is defined in Section 3402 as, in essence, a lateral capacity loss of 10 percent or more in an earthquake of limited intensity. This Bulletin presents the Department’s interpretation of a 10-percent capacity loss based on visual indicators of such damage and provides evaluation and retrofit scope for buildings with such earthquake induced disproportionate damage. [provisional, pending San Francisco Building Code adoption of provisions for disproportionate damage.]
Residential buildings that incur substantial structural damage or disproportionate damage as detailed in this Bulletin are considered to be “substandard” per California Health and Safety Code Section 17920.3 (b) Structural hazards and (o) Inadequate structural resistance to horizontal forces.
APPLICABILITY
A building is eligible to apply the interpretations and provisions of this Bulletin if all of the following criteria are met:
	A.	The building has at least one story in which the seismic force-resisting system is a wood light-frame system in at least one direction, and
	B.	The building has only wood floor and wood roof diaphragms, and
	C.	The building has a continuous foundation, and
	D.	The building contains a residential occupancy group R-1, R-2, R-3.1, or R-4 as defined in San Francisco Building Code Section 310. At the discretion of the Department of Inspection, a building in occupancy group R-3 with one or two residential units may be deemed eligible if it is structurally and architecturally similar to the typical residential buildings with three or more units addressed in this Bulletin.
Buildings of other construction types and occupancies may also apply the provisions of this Bulletin on a case-by- case basis when approved by the Department of Building Inspection. Other methods of determining capacity loss based on analysis, testing, or other objective data may be allowed at the discretion of the Department.
Qualified historic buildings are permitted to be evaluated or retrofitted using the provisions in the California Historical Building Code, provided that such standards do not result in seismic performance less than the evaluation and retrofit engineering criteria detailed in this Bulletin.
EVALUATION PROCEDURES
For the purpose of determining if a building has incurred substantial structural or disproportionate damage, visual observation and classification of damage patterns may be used in lieu of a calculation of percentage loss of capacity. All determinations of substantial structural or disproportionate damage, including visual observation and classification of damage, shall be made by a licensed design professional and shall be submitted in accordance with San Francisco Building Code Section 3405.2.1. For damage not deemed to be either substantial structural damage or disproportionate damage, repairs shall restore the building to its permitted pre- earthquake condition by methods acceptable to the Department.
Buildings with Substantial Structural Damage
Substantial structural damage to vertical elements of the lateral force-resisting system shall be deemed to exist when a “triggering damage pattern” is observed in any system or components listed in Table 1. Table 1 also includes earthquake-induced substantial structural damage indicators for gravity load-carrying components. These are defined in San Francisco Building Code, Section 3402.1 as “any component, or any group of such components, that supports more than 30 percent of the total area of the structure’s floor(s) and roof(s),” and the remaining capacity of any damaged components, “with respect to all dead and live loads, is less than 75 percent of that required by this code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose and location.”  Per San Francisco Building Code, Section 3405.3.1, the provisions of this Bulletin apply to substantial structural damage to gravity load-carrying components only when that damage has been caused by earthquake.
Buildings with Disproportionate Damage
Disproportionate damage to vertical elements of the lateral force-resisting system shall be deemed to exist when any of the earthquake “triggering damage patterns” is observed in any system or component listed in Table 1. Table 1 also includes disproportionate damage indicators for gravity load-carrying systems, which include any component, or any group of components, that supports more than 10 percent of the total area of a structure’s floor(s) and roof(s), and in which the remaining capacity of any damaged components, with respect to all dead and live loads, is less than 75 percent of that required by this code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose and location. The provisions of this Bulletin apply to disproportionate damage to gravity load-carrying components only when such damage has been caused by earthquake, as SFBC Section 3405.4.1 notes that a building with disproportionate damage is subject to the provisions and requirements for substantial structural damage.
Table 1:  Substantial Structural Damage and Disproportionate Damage Patterns
for Wood Frame Residential  Buildings with Three or More Dwelling UnitsDamage PatternTriggering DamageSubstantial
Structural DamageDisproportionate
DamageWood-frame shear panels (wall segments or piers) and sheathing.
When any of the following damage patterns is observed:
•	Stucco or plaster loose at more than one wall stud, or
•	Nail pull-through at wood or gypsum board sheathing at more than one wall stud, or
•	Visible permanent in-plane racking, or
•	Diagonal shear cracking across half or more of a plaster or stucco panel, or
•	Horizontal flexural cracking across half or more of a plaster or stucco panel, or
•	Loss of nailing connection from sheathing to top plate or sole plate, or
•	Any other indicators of sheathing delamination or panel mechanism.In any story, in any direction, where the sum of the length of all wall segments and piers with any of the listed damage patterns is 20 percent or more of the total length of wall segments and piers in that story and direction. Only wall segments or piers contributing significant strength or stiffness to each wall line of the pre-damaged structure shall be con sidered. Large openings do not count toward the summation or total length of wall segments and piers.In any story, along any wall line, where the sum of the length of wall segments and piers with any of the listed damage patterns is 20 percent or more of the total length of wall segments and piers along that wall line in that story. Only wall segments or piers contributing significant strength or stiffness to each wall line of the pre-damaged structure shall be considered. Large openings do not count toward the summation or total length of wall segments and piers.Connections and load path elements.
When any of the following damage patterns is observed:
•	Hold-down pullout or stud fracture at hold-down, or
•	Sliding of sole plate at floor line, or
•	Sliding of sill plate at top of footing, or
•	Any other indicators of lateral load path failure.AnyConnections and load path elements
When any of the following damage patterns is observed:
•	Failure of diaphragm-to-wall connections at rim joist or blocking, or
•	Collector or chord failure.At any floor level, where the damage affects the load path to more than one pier or wall segment, or affects the load path to the only pier or wall segment along a wall line.Gravity load-carrying members, connections, and load path elements.
When any of the following damage patterns is observed:
•	Floor framing-to- column/wall shear connection damage, or
•	Loss or substantial reduction of seat bearing, or
•	Crushing, fracture, or shortening of posts, wall studs, or similar components, or
•	Column, post, or pier damage due to deformation incompatibility, or
•	Subsidence or differential settlement of foundation, or
•	Any other indicators of member failure, load path failure, or loss of bearing capacity.In gravity load-carrying components defined in San Francisco Building Code Section 3402.1 as supporting, as a group, “more than 30 percent of the total area of the structure’s floor(s) and roof(s),” and the remaining capacity of any damaged components, “with respect to all dead and live loads, is less than 75 percent of that required by this code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose and location.”In gravity load-carrying components supporting, as a group, more than 10 percent of the total area of the structure’s floor(s) and roof(s), and the remaining capacity of any damaged components, with respect to all dead and live loads, is less than 75 percent of that required by this code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose and location.Permanent lateral deformation indicating increased P-delta instability.When permanent story drift of 2 percent or more is observed in any story.•	When permanent story drift of 1 percent or more is observed in any story, or
•	A pattern of jammed doors or windows repairable only by structural repair and not by minor adjustments or rehanging doors or windows.Damage indicating torsional instability.•	When there is significant stiffness loss on more than one perimeter wall line, or
•	Significant strength loss not balanced between wall lines on opposite sides of the building.•	When there is significant stiffness loss on more than one perimeter wall line, or
•	Significant strength loss not balanced between wall lines on opposite sides of the building, or
•	Any visually noticeable permanent torsional deformation.
Further Evaluation and Retrofit Scope for Buildings with Substantial Structural Damage
For buildings with substantial structural damage, further evaluation and retrofit shall proceed in accordance with San Francisco Building Code Section 3405.2 subject to the following guidelines:
	A.	Evaluation and retrofit shall consider the entire structure, including all stories and all directions, regardless of where in the structure the triggering damage occurred, except that for certain building types and damage patterns, partial retrofit may be permitted under one of the alternative criteria documents given in the “Evaluation and Retrofit Engineering Criteria” section of this Bulletin.
	B.	Gravity load-carrying components need not be considered for evaluation and retrofit except when they are also part of the building’s seismic force-resisting system or are subject to San Francisco Building Code Section 3405.3.1.
	C.	Nonstructural components need not be considered for evaluation or retrofit unless subject to separate building code requirements, ordinances, or regulations.
	D.	Load combinations that include wind or earthquake effects shall be considered.
Further Evaluation and Retrofit Scope for Buildings with Disproportionate Damage
For buildings with disproportionate damage, further evaluation and retrofit shall proceed in accordance with San Francisco Building Code Section 3405.4.1 subject to the following guidelines:
	A.	Evaluation and retrofit shall consider the entire structure, including all stories and all directions, regardless of where in the structure the triggering damage occurred, except that for certain building types and damage patterns, partial retrofit may be permitted under one of the alternative criteria documents given in the “Evaluation and Retrofit Engineering Criteria” section of this Bulletin.
		Exception: When the disproportionate damage is limited to connections or load path elements and does not affect wood-frame wall segments, piers, or other vertical elements of the lateral force-resisting system, the evaluation and retrofit scope may be limited to components throughout the building in directions similar to or performing the same function as the components with damage.
	B.	Gravity load-carrying components need not be considered for evaluation and retrofit except when they are also part of the building’s seismic force-resisting system or are subjected to San Francisco Building Code Section 3405.3.1.
	C.	Nonstructural components need not be considered for evaluation and retrofit unless subject to separate building code requirements, ordinances, or regulations. 
	D.	Load combinations that include earthquake effects shall be considered. Load combinations that include wind effects may be ignored.
EVALUATION AND RETROFIT ENGINEERING CRITERIA
If, after evaluation, the pre-earthquake building is determined to satisfy the criteria of San Francisco Building Code, Section 3405.2, then the building need not be retrofitted, but shall be restored to its pre-earthquake capacity. When retrofit is triggered by earthquake damage at any level, the engineering criteria for retrofit shall be permitted to use earthquake loads that are 75 percent of those prescribed by the San Francisco Building Code for new construction, in accordance with SFBC Section 3405.2.
Alternatively, any of the following codes, standards, or guidelines may be used as alternative evaluation or retrofit criteria for qualifying buildings:
	A.	Meets ASCE 31-03 for the Life Safety Performance Level, or
	B.	Meets ASCE 41-06 for the Life Safety Performance Level (S-3) in a BSE-1 earthquake hazard level, or
	C.	If the triggering damage involves only a soft, weak, or open front first story, meets 2012 IEBC Appendix Chapter A4 [See Attachment A.] or 2009 IEBC Appendix Chapter A4 with NCSEA/SEAOC amendments, or
	D.	Meets 2010 San Francisco Building Code Section 3401.10.
Signed by:
Tom C. Hui, S.E.			7/2/2012
Acting Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on 6/20/2012
Attachment A:  Excerpt from 2012 International Code for Existing Buildings, Appendix Chapter A4
AB-099  Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements for Concrete Buildings
NO. AB-099	:DATE	:July 2, 2012 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Permit Review and OperationsTITLE	:Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements for Concrete BuildingsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Bulletin is to establish policy for interpreting the San Francisco Building Code regarding post-earthquake damage retrofit triggers for concrete buildings constructed before May 21, 1973 and to detail the scope and criteria for such triggered retrofits and other repairs.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 3401.10, Lateral force design requirements for existing buildings
- Section 3402, Definition of Disproportionate Damage [pending code revision]
- Section 3402, Definition of Substantial Structural Damage
- Section 3405, Repairs
2013 California Historical Building C ode, CCR Title Part 8
ASCE/SEI Standard 31, Seismic Evaluation of Existing Buildings
ASCE/SEI Standard 41, Seismic Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings, with Supplement 1
California Health and Safety Code, Section 17920.3
CAPSS Report, Here Today – Here Tomorrow: The Road to Earthquake Resilience in San Francisco, Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements (ATC-52-4 Report), http://www.sfcapss.org/PDFs/PostQuakeRepair.pdf
1997 NHERP Guidelines for the Seismic Rehabilitation of Buildings (FEMA 273)
FEMA 306: Evaluation of Earthquake Damaged Concrete and Masonry Wall Buildings: Basic Procedures Manual (FEMA, 1999)
FEMA 308: The Repair of Earthquake Damaged Concrete and Masonry Wall Buildings (FEMA, 1999)
FEMA 356: Prestandard and Commentary for the Seismic Rehabilitation of Buildings (FEMA, 2000)DISCUSSION	:San Francisco Building Code, Section 3405.2 triggers seismic evaluation, and possibly retrofit, of buildings when earthquake-related damage reaches the level of “substantial structural damage to vertical elements of the lateral- force-resisting system.” Substantial structural damage is defined in Section 3402 as, in essence, a loss of lateral capacity of 20 percent or more in any horizontal direction. The code gives no specific rules for identifying a 20- percent loss or guidance as to how to calculate capacity loss, so implementation of these code provisions relies on interpretation by the Department of Building Inspection. This Bulletin presents the Department’s interpretation of a 20-percent lateral capacity loss for concrete buildings constructed before May 21, 1973.In addition to substantial structural damage, San Francisco Building Code, Section 3405.4 triggers seismic evaluation, and possibly retrofit, when earthquake-related damage reaches the level of disproportionate damage, defined in Section 3402 [provisional, pending San Francisco Building Code adoption of provisions for Disproportionate Damage] as, in essence, a lateral capacity loss of 10 percent or more in an earthquake of limited intensity. This Bulletin presents the Department's interpretation of a 10-percent capacity loss for concrete buildings constructed before May 21, 1973.
For concrete shear wall and infill buildings, the evaluation procedures developed in FEMA 306 and the simplified version of the methodology in FEMA 308 are used determine whether a building with substantial structural damage or disproportionate damage needs to be restored to its pre-earthquake capacity or retrofitted. Substantial structural damage or disproportionate damage may also be deemed to exist when damage to specific building components or conditions reaches the severity of “earthquake triggering damage” based on visual observation and classification .
For concrete moment-frame buildings, repair and retrofit requirements are based only on visual observation and classification of specific components damage.
Residential buildings that incur substantial structural damage or disproportionate damage as detailed in this Bulletin are considered to be “substandard” per California Health and Safety Code Section 17920.3(b) Structural hazards and (o) Inadequate structural resistance to horizontal forces.
APPLICABILITY:
A building is eligible to apply the interpretations and provisions of this Bulletin if all of the following criteria are met:
	A.	The building has cast-in-place concrete bearing walls or cast-in-place concrete frames, and
	B.	The building has at least one floor diaphragm constructed with cast-in-place concrete.
Buildings of other construction types may also apply the provisions of this Bulletin on a case-by- case basis when approved by the Department of Building Inspection. Other methods of determining capacity loss based on analysis, testing, or other objective data may also be allowed at the discretion of the Department.
Qualified buildings may be permitted to be evaluated or retrofitted using the provisions in the California Historical Building Code, provided that such standards do not result in seismic performance less than the evaluation and retrofit engineering criteria detailed in this Bulletin.
DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this bulletin, the following definitions shall apply:
	•	CONCRETE SHEAR WALL: A concrete wall which resists lateral forces applied parallel to the plane of the wall.
	•	CONCRETE MOMENT FRAME: A building frame system in which seismic shear forces are resisted by shear and flexure in members and joints of the frame, including slab- column moment frames.
	•	CONCRETE INFILL FRAME: A concrete moment frame having panel(s) of masonry that participate in resisting lateral forces that are placed within the frame members.
	•	NONSTRUCTURAL REPAIR: Repairs that improve the visual appearance of damage to a component. These repairs may also restore the nonstructural properties of a component, such as weather protection. Any structural benefit is negligible. This is defined as “Cosmetic Repair” in FEMA 308.
EVALUATION PROCEDURE AND RETROFIT SCOPE
Concrete Shear Wall and Infill Frame Buildings
General
Substantial structural damage to elements of the lateral force-resisting system shall be deemed to exist when the results of a FEMA 306 evaluation shows that capacity loss exceeds 20% for a concrete shear wall or infill frame building, or when any of the “triggering damage” criteria for substantial structural damage described in Table 1 is observed in an eligible building.
Additionally, disproportionate damage shall be deemed to exist when a FEMA 306 evaluation shows a capacity loss exceeding 10%, or when any of the “triggering damage” for disproportionate damage described in Table 1 is observed in an eligible building.
Overview
The flowchart in Figure 1 shall be followed to determine the post-earthquake damage repair or retrofit requirements related to substantial structural damage to concrete shear wall and infill frame buildings.
The process begins with a determination of whether the damaged building has sufficient pre- earthquake capacity to satisfy San Francisco Building Code, Section 3401.10, which references the May 21, 1973 milestone requirements of San Francisco Building Code, Section 1604.11.1. If the building in its pre-damaged state satisfies this code provision, then the building need not be retrofitted regardless of the level of damage, and restoration to pre-earthquake capacity is sufficient. Alternatively, if a full FEMA 306 evaluation (labeled as “Optional FEMA 306 Evaluation” in Figure 1) shows a capacity loss of less than 5 percent, nonstructural repair to the building instead of restoration to pre-earthquake capacity shall be permitted, except that individual component damage or condition repair per Table 1 is also required.
If the building does not meet the San Francisco Building Code, Section 1604.11.1 requirements per San Francisco Building Code Section 3401.10, then a full FEMA 306 evaluation (labeled as “Mandatory FEMA 306 Evaluation” in Figure 1) is required, and nonstructural repair, restoration to pre-earthquake capacity, or retrofit requirements may be triggered as shown in Figure 1. In addition, individual component damage or condition repair per Table 1 is required.
Figure 1: Flowchart for Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit of Concrete Shear Wall and Infill Frame Buildings


FEMA 306 Evaluation Process
A FEMA 306 evaluation process for the pre-event structure and the damaged structure shall be performed using the guidelines below:
	1.	The evaluation shall use the nonlinear static procedures defined in FEMA 306 to determine the capacity for pre-event and damaged conditions [Attachment A]. FEMA 306 was developed at the time FEMA 273 was also in development, prior to the publication of FEMA 356. Since then, additional research and development effort was incorporated into FEMA 356 and later into ASCE 41. Therefore, the comparable, more current equations in ASCE 41 shall be used in performing a FEMA 306 evaluation rather than the FEMA 273 equivalents.
	2.	The global displacement demand shall be determined in accordance with ASCE 41.
	3.	The performance objective shall meet the requirements of ASCE 41 for Life Safety Structural Performance Level (S-3) at 75% of the spectral demand associated with the current code value at the building site.
Simplified FEMA 308 Evaluation Process
The following simplified version of the FEMA 308 approach, based on loss in performance, L, may be used for the purpose of determining threshold triggers for restoration to pre-earthquake capacity and retrofit. The process is similar to that outlined in Figure 1. The FEMA 308 parameters shall be determined using the guidelines as follows. For further definition of the FEMA 308 parameters needed for the evaluation, see Attachment B.
	1.	To use this method, first determine the following performance capacity and loss indices:
	2.	•	Pre-event (Undamaged) Performance Index:
	P  dc / dd,
			where dc is the global displacement capacity for the selected performance objective and dd is the maximum global displacement demand for the selected ground motion. This performance index is calculated using component properties for the pre-event conditions in accordance with the methodology outlined in FEMA 306.
		•	Damaged Performance Index:
	P’  d’c / d’d,
			where the prime symbol (’) denotes that the global displacement capacity and demand, d’c and d’d, respectively, are determined for the components in their damaged state using FEMA 306.
		•	Loss:
	L  1 – (P’ / P),
			where L is the performance loss of a building due to earthquake damage, and is given by the ratio of the damaged performance index, P’, to the undamaged performance index, P, for a specific performance objective. L ranges between 0 and 1.
	3.	To determine whether earthquake damage is acceptable and neither restoration to pre-earthquake capacity nor retrofit is triggered, the performance loss, L, is compared against the FEMA 308 Table 3-1 [Attachment B] threshold parameters defined below:
		•	Lr(min): The Loss threshold below which neither restoration to pre- earthquake capacity nor retrofit is triggered, shall be defined as follows:
				Lr(min)  0.05 for earthquake event with Sa0.3  0.4g
				Lr(min)  0.05 for earthquake event with Sa0.3 > 0.4g
		•	Lr(max): The Loss threshold above which either restoration to pre- earthquake capacity or retrofit is triggered. For this simplified procedure, Lr(max) may be taken to be the same as Lr(min) since Lr does not vary:
				Lr(max)  0.05 for earthquake event with Sa0.3  0.4g
				Lr(max)  0.05 for earthquake event with Sa0.3 > 0.4g
		Alternatively, the Damaged Performance Index, P’ may be used to determine whether earthquake damage is acceptable and neither restoration to pre-earthquake capacity nor retrofit is triggered by comparing P’ against the FEMA 308 Table 3-1 [Attachment B] limit parameters defined below:
		•	P’min: The Damage Performance Index limit below which restoration to pre-earthquake capacity or retrofit is triggered, is not used since Lr does not vary for the simplified method.
		•	P’max: The Damage Performance Index limit above which neither restoration to pre-earthquake capacity nor retrofit is triggered regardless of the value of Loss, L, shall be defined as 1.0.
	4.	If a building is required to be restored to its pre-earthquake capacity or retrofitted per step 2, the Performance Loss, L, is compared against the FEMA 308 Table 3-2 [Attachment B] threshold parameters defined below to determine if retrofit is triggered:
		•	Lu(min): The Loss threshold below which earthquake damage does not trigger retrofit but requires restoration to pre-earthquake capacity, shall be defined as below:
				Lu(min)  0.10 for earthquake event with Sa0.3  0.4g
				Lu(min)  0.20 for earthquake event with Sa0.3 > 0.4g
		•	Lu(max): The Loss threshold above which earthquake damage triggers retrofit, shall be taken to be the same as Lu(min) since Lu does not vary for the simplified method:
				Lu(max)  0.10 for earthquake with Sa0.3  0.4g
				Lu(max)  0.20 for earthquake with Sa0.3 > 0.4g
		Alternatively, the Undamaged Performance Index, P may be used to determine whether restoration to pre-earthquake capacity or retrofit is triggered by comparing P against the FEMA 308 Table 3-2 limit parameters defined below:
		•	Pmin: The Pre-event Performance Index limit below which existing earthquake damage triggers retrofit, is not used since Lu does not vary for the purpose of the simplified method.
		•	Pmax: The Pre-event Performance Index limit above which existing earthquake damage does not trigger retrofit and restoration to pre-earthquake capacity is sufficient regardless of the value of Loss, L, shall be taken as 1.0.
Retrofit Triggers due to Specific Component Damage or Conditions
In addition to the retrofit triggers per the FEMA 306 and 308 methodologies described above, damage to any of the specific components or other conditions noted in Table 1 below shall trigger retrofit shown in the “Action Required” column of the table if damage is observed to reach the severity of “triggering damage.” The conditions noted in Table 1 are primarily related to gravity-load-carrying component damage, load path failures, or significant damage in individual components. For damage less than the “triggering damage,” repairs shall be made to return the building to original strength or condition by methods acceptable to the Department of Building Inspection.
Table 1: Triggers for Specific Components or Conditions in Concrete BuildingsComponents or ConditionsTriggering DamageAction RequiredSubstantial Structure DamageDisproportionate DamageShear cracks in gravity load-carrying columns or bearing walls supporting less than 30% of the area of a roof or an individual floor.Preemptive diagonal tension crack meeting the “Moderate” or worse criteria of the RC2H component in Section 5.5 of FEMA 306 or any component with “Extreme” damage per Section 5.5 of FEMA 306 [See Attachment A].Preemptive diagonal tension crack meeting “Moderate” criteria of the RC2H component in Section 5.5 of FEMA 306, except that inclined crack widths are to be taken as between 1/16 and 1/8. [See Attachment A].Replace component.Shear cracks in gravity-load-carrying columns or bearing walls supporting 30% or more of the area of a roof or an individual floor.Preemptive diagonal tension crack meeting the “Moderate” or worse criteria of the RC2H component in Section 5.5 of FEMA 306 or any component with “Extreme” damage per Section 5.5 of FEMA 306 [Attachment A].Preemptive diagonal tension crack meeting “Moderate” criteria of the RC2H component in Section 5.5 of FEMA 306, except that inclined crack widths are to be taken as between 1/16 and 1/8 [Attachment A].Replace component and retrofit lateral system to SFBC Section 3405.3.Leaning story (excessive drift) in a concrete moment- frame building.Permanent lateral displacement of 1% of the story height or more resulting from earthquake damage.Permanent lateral displacement of 0.5% of the story height or more resulting from earthquake damage.Retrofit lateral system to SFBC Section 3405.3.Beam-column joint shear at joints with at least one exterior face in columns supporting less than 30% of the area of a roof or individual floor.Cracking representative of joint shear at the beam-column joint with cracks at least 1/8 wide or offset along the crack at least 1/16Replace component.Beam-column joint shear at joints with at least one exterior face in columns supporting more than 30% of the area of a roof or individual floor.Cracking representative of joint shear at the beam-column joint with cracks at least 1/8 wide or offset along the crack at least 1/16.Replace component and retrofit lateral system to SFBC Section 3405.3.Punching shear damage at slab around columns without intersecting beams in columns supporting less than 30% of the area of a roof or individual floor.Evidence representative of potential punching shear such as fresh circular cracking in the slab around a column with or without vertical offset at the crack.Replace component.Punching shear damage at slab around columns without intersecting beams in columns supporting more than 30% of the area of a roof or individual floor.Evidence representative of potential punching shear such as fresh circular cracking in the slab around a column with or without vertical offset at the crack.Replace component and retrofit lateral system to SFBC Section 3405.3.
Separation of floor- to-wall connections.•	Permanent separation or sliding at joint of 1 or more, orRetrofit connection using forces from SFBC Section 3405.3.•	Permanent movement that results in inadequate bearing of supported member.Delamination of more than 30% of cast-in-place topping from precast floor or roof framing where topping serves as the diaphragm.Permanent separation of topping from precast members.Replace damaged topping slab and tie new slab to underlying precast members using SFBC Section 3405.3 forces and current detailing.Fractured bars at dia phragm chords or collectors.•	Permanent separation or sliding at joint of 1 or more, orReplace damaged bars and tie or splice new components to surrounding structural elements using SFBC Section 3405.3 forces and current detailing.•	Permanent movement that results in inadequate bearing of supported member.
Concrete Moment-Frame Buildings
The process for determining whether repair or retrofit is triggered for a concrete moment-frame building begins with a determination of whether the damaged building has adequate pre- earthquake capacity to comply with San Francisco Building Code, Section 3401.10, which references the May 21, 1973 milestone requirements of the San Francisco Building Code, Section 1604.11.1. If this is satisfied, then the building need not be retrofitted regardless of the level of damage, and restoration of the building to its pre-earthquake capacity shall be undertaken. Unlike concrete shear-wall and infill buildings, nonstructural repairs shall not be permitted even if a full FEMA 306 evaluation has determined that the capacity loss is below 5 percent. For non-complying buildings, if any of the component damage or conditions given in Table 1 is present, the building shall be retrofitted as required by Table 1.
For concrete frame buildings with any interacting walls, in addition to the Table 1 checks, the evaluation procedure and retrofit scope given above for concrete shear wall and infill frame buildings shall be applied. When a FEMA 306 analysis is used to determine loss of capacity outlined in this bulletin for concrete shear wall and infill frame buildings, the moment-frame capacity may not be included in development of the force-displacement pushover curve.
EVALUATION AND RETROFIT ENGINEERING CRITERIA
When retrofit is triggered by earthquake damage at any level, the engineering criteria for retrofit shall be permitted to use earthquake loads that are 75 percent of those prescribed by the San Francisco Building Code for new construction, in accordance with SFBC Section 3405.2.
In addition, any of the following alternative codes, standards, or guidelines may be used as alternative evaluation or retrofit criteria for qualifying buildings:
	A.	Meets the requirements of ASCE 31-03 for the Life Safety Performance Level, or
	B.	Meets the requirements of ASCE 41-06 for the Life Safety Performance Level (S-3) in the BSE-1 earthquake hazard level, or
	C.	Meets the requirements of 2010 San Francisco Building Code 3401.10.
Signed:
Tom C. Hui, S.E.			7/2/2012
Acting Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on 6/20/2012
Attachment A:	Excerpt from FEMA 306: Evaluation of Earthquake Damaged Concrete and Masonry Wall Buildings: Basic Procedures Manual, Chapters 4-5
Attachment B:	Excerpt from FEMA 308: The Repair of Earthquake Damaged Concrete and Masonry Wall Buildings, Chapter 3
AB-100  Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements for One- and Two-Family Units
NO. AB-100	:DATE	:July 12, 2012 (Updated 01/01/014 for code references)SUBJECT	:Permit Review and OperationTITLE	:Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements for One- and Two-Family UnitsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Bulletin is to establish policy for interpreting the San Francisco Building Code regarding post-earthquake damage retrofit triggers for one- and two-family dwellings of wood-frame construction and to detail the scope and criteria for such triggered retrofits. The Bulletin also provides guidance on the scope of required building repair if retrofits are not triggered.REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Section 3401.8, Lateral force design requirements for existing buildings
- Section 3402, Definition of Disproportionate Damage [pending code revision]
- Section 3402, Definition of Substantial Structural Damage
- Section 3405, Repairs
2013 California Historical Building Code, C.C.R. Title Part 8
2012 International Existing Building Code, Appendix Chapter A4, or 2009 International Existing Building Code, Appendix Chapter A4 with NCSEA/SEAOC amendments
ASCE/SEI Standard 31, Seismic Evaluation of Existing Buildings
ASCE/SEI Standard 41, Seismic Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings, with Supplement 1 California Health and Safety Code, Section 17920.3
CAPSS Report, Here Today  Here Tomorrow: The Road to Earthquake Resilience in San Francisco, Post-Earthquake Repair and Retrofit Requirements (ATC-52-4 Report), http://www.sfcapss.org/PDFs/PostQuakeRepair.pdf
CUREE EDA-2: General Guidelines for the Assessment and Repair of Earthquake Damage in Residential Woodframe Buildings, (CUREE, 2010)
FEMA 306: Evaluation of Earthquake Damaged Concrete and Masonry Wall Buildings: Basic Procedures Manual (FEMA, 1999)DISCUSSION	:San Francisco Building Code, Section 3405.2 triggers seismic evaluation, and possibly retrofit of buildings, when earthquake-related damage reaches the level of “substantial structural damage to vertical elements of the lateral- force-resisting system.” Substantial structural damage is defined in San Francisco Building Code, Section 3402 as, in essence, a loss of lateral capacity of 20 percent or more in any horizontal direction. The code does not give specific rules for identifying a 20-percent capacity loss nor guidance as to how to calculate capacity loss, so implementation of these code provisions relies on interpretation by the Department of Building Inspection. This Bulletin presents the Department’s interpretation of a 20-percent lateral capacity loss based on visual indicators of such damage, and details the evaluation procedure and retrofit scope for buildings that exhibit earthquake- induced substantial structural damage. The Bulletin also provides guidance on the scope of required repair of building components or assemblies if such retrofits are not triggered.
In addition to substantial structural damage, San Francisco Building Code, Section 3405.4 triggers structural evaluation and possibly retrofit when earthquake-related damage reaches the level of disproportionate damage, which is defined in San Francisco Building Code, Section 3402 as, in essence, a lateral capacity loss of 10 percent or more in an earthquake of limited intensity. This Bulletin presents the Department of Building Inspection’s interpretation of a 10 percent capacity loss based on visual indicators of such damage and provides evaluation procedures and retrofit scope for buildings with such earthquake induced disproportionate damage. [provisional, pending San Francisco Building Code adoption of provisions for Disproportionate Damage.]
Residential buildings that incur substantial structural damage or disproportionate damage as detailed in this Bulletin are considered to be “substandard” per California Health and Safety Code Section 17920.3(b) Structural hazards and (o) Inadequate structural resistance to horizontal forces.
APPLICABILITY
A building is eligible to apply the interpretations and provisions of this Bulletin if all of the following criteria are met:
	A.	The building includes at least one story in which the seismic force-resisting system consists of a wood light-frame system in at least one direction, and
	B.	The building has only wood floor and roof diaphragms, and
	C.	The building contains a residential occupancy group R-3 as defined in San Francisco Building Code, Section 310. At the discretion of the Department of Building Inspection, a building in this group may be evaluated and repaired or retrofitted using the criteria for a residential building with three or more units under AB-098 if the building is structurally and architecturally similar to that group of buildings.
Buildings of other construction types and occupancies may also apply the provisions of this Bulletin on a case-by- case basis when approved by the Department of Building Inspection. Other methods of determining capacity loss based on analysis, testing, or other objective data may also be allowed at the discretion of the Department.
Qualified buildings may be permitted to be evaluated or retrofitted using the provisions in the California Historical Building Code provided that such provisions do not result in seismic performance that is less than the evaluation and retrofit engineering provisions detailed in this Bulletin.
EVALUATION PROCEDURES AND RETROFIT SCOPE
For the purpose of determining if a building has incurred substantial structural damage or disproportionate damage per San Francisco Building Code, visual observation and classification of damage and severity may be used in lieu of a calculation of percentage loss of capacity. All determinations of substantial structural damage or disproportionate damage, including visual observation and classification of damage and severity, shall be made by a licensed design professional, and evaluation shall be submitted in accordance with San Francisco Building Code, Section 3405.2.1. For damage not deemed to be either substantial structural damage or disproportionate damage, repairs shall restore the building to its original strength or condition by methods acceptable to the Department of Building Inspection.
Buildings with Substantial Structural Damage
Earthquake-induced substantial structural damage to elements of lateral force-resisting system of a building shall be deemed to exist when any of the components and conditions is observed to reach the severity of “triggering damage” given in Table 1. For buildings with such substantial structural damage, evaluation and retrofit, where required, shall proceed in accordance with the “Action Required” column shown in Table 1 and the “Further Evaluation and Retrofit Engineering Criteria” section.
Buildings with Disproportionate Damage
Disproportionate damage to elements of the lateral force-resisting system of a building shall be deemed to exist when any of the components and conditions is observed to reach the severity of “triggering damage” given in Table 1. For buildings with such disproportionate damage, evaluation and retrofit, where required, shall proceed in accordance with the “Action Required” column shown in Table 1 and the “Further Evaluation and Retrofit Engineering Criteria” section.
Table 1:  Substantial and Disproportionate Damage Triggers for Repair and Retrofit of One and Two-Family DwellingsComponents and Damage ConditionTriggering DamageAction RequiredSubstantial Structural DamageDisproportionate DamageStone or masonry veneer, incidental URM wall (non- chimney)•	Appearance similar to “Heavy Damage” as described in Section 7.5 of FEMA 306 [Attachment B], or•	Appearance similar to “Moderate Damage” as described in Section 7.5 of FEMA 306 [Attachment B], orRemove and replace damaged elements.•	Failure of anchorage to backing in over 20% of the wall area•	Visible failure of anchorage to backing anywhere•	URM foundation piers•	“Moderate Damage” as described in Section 7.5 of FEMA 306 [Attachment B], orRetrofit crawl space or under-floor area.•	Visible relative movement of supported joist or beams on support of 1" or more, or•	Continuous footings with crawl space or under-floor area•	Permanent movement that results in inadequate bearing of supported memberCracks in continuous footings without visible related soil failure or movementCrack width of less than 0.25"No retrofit required. Repair to original strength in accordance with Section 4A.3 of CUREE EDA-2.Crack width or offset of greater than 0.25"No retrofit required. Obtain design professional guidance for repair.Cracks in continuous footings with visible related soil failure or movementCracks and visible related soil failure or movement•	Obtain design professional guidance for mitigation of soil movement and repair of footing, and•	Mitigate any soil issues as recommended by design professional.•	Post-and- beam crawl space or under-floor area•	Permanent lateral displacement of 2" anywhere, or•	Permanent lateral displacement of 1" anywhere, orRetrofit crawl space or under-floor area in accordance with IEBC Chapter A3.•	Visible relative movement of 1" or more between supported joists or beams and their supports, or•	Cripple wall with stud height not exceeding 4 feet•	Visible relative movement for more than 50% of the supported joists or beams and their supports•	Permanent movement that results in inadequate bearing of over 50% of the supported membersAnchorage of floor/wall framing to foundationsPermanent movement of 1 anywhereRetrofit crawl space or under-floor area in accordance with IEBC Chapter A3 [Attachment A].•	Hillside structure where height of supports from foundation to the point of bearing for the floor assembly above exceeds 4 feet•	Permanent lateral displacement of 2 or 2% drift, whichever is greater, at downhill cripple wall stud in any direction, or•	Permanent lateral displacement of 1 or 1% drift, whichever is greater, at downhill cripple wall stud in any direction, orRetrofit from the foundation level to a level above with a full-plate diaphragm, specifically addressing the torsion created by walls of varying height, supports, or other causes.•	Cripple wall with stud height exceeding 4 feet•	Failure of connections in downhill supports if post-and-beam braced frame or moment frame, or•	Signs of movement that could lead to failure of the downhill supports, or•	Separation of uphill framing from foundation support or indication of relative movement during shaking of 1 or more in the direction parallel to the slope•	Visible relative movement of the uphill support in the direction parallel to the slopeWeak Story: when any story has less than 80% of the strength of the story above in either direction•	Permanent lateral displacement of 2 or more, orRetrofit soft story and any support system below.•	Indication of any lateral movement in story of 4 or more during shaking in any directionStories other than weak stories•	Permanent lateral displacement of 2 or more anywhere in any direction, or•	Retrofit from damaged story down to the foundation, and•	Permanent lateral displacement of 1 anywhere if torsional displacement is observed, or•	Repair walls not part of the designated lateral force-resisting system in accordance with Section 5.8 of CUREE EDA-2.•	Indications of excessive response such as severe cracking of brittle walls nail fracture or pullout in wood, multiple jammed doors, and/or broken windowsConnection between two parts of a structure including wings, split levels, porches, and beam to post connections•	Permanent separation or sliding at joint of 1 or more, orProvide structural separation with independent gravity support for each structure or a seismic tie that will transfer 20% of the weight of the lighter portion across the joint.•	Permanent movement that results in inadequate bearing of a supported memberUnreinforced masonry chimneysDamage patterns de scribed in Chapter 7 of CUREE EDA-2 that require replacement of any chimney bricks or flue tiles or substantial extent of mortarEarthquake caused horizontal cracking at roof line or at the top of fire boxMinimum retro fit/replacement according to Appendix 7A of Chapter 7 of CUREE EDA-2.Any chimney•	Earthquake induced separation of chimney from the surrounding or adjacent wood framing, orFor Substantial Structural Damage: Repair/replace attic ties if present. If no tie to wood framing is evident, provide new engineered tie or replace chimney according to Appendix 7A of CUREE EDA-2•	Clear movement from a hand pushed “rock test” as described in Section 7.7.3 of CUREE EDA-2.For Disproportionate Damage: Repair/replace chimney according to Appendix 7A of CUREE EDA-2.Ceiling plasterFalling or delaminated ceiling plaster greater than 10% of area within any room.Determine extent of delamination or deteriorated plaster and replace.Ceiling materialCracks in ceiling material indicating permanent movement or local crushing of ceiling material at crack.If cracks are caused by movement of joists at their supports, provide tie across area of slippage. Otherwise, repair.Roof tilesDamage to anchorage of roof tiles, unanchored or slipped tiles.Determine extent of missing or deteriorated anchorage and replace damaged tiles.
FURTHER EVALUATION AND RETROFIT ENGINEERING CRITERIA:
If, after an evaluation per San Francisco Building Code, Section 3405.2, the pre-earthquake building is determined to satisfy the criteria, then the building need not be retrofitted, but shall be restored to its pre-earthquake capacity. When retrofit is triggered by earthquake damage at any level, the engineering criteria for retrofit shall be permitted to use earthquake loads that are 75 percent of those prescribed by the San Francisco Building Code for new construction, in accordance with San Francisco Building Code, Section 3405.2.
Alternatively, any of the following codes, standards, or guidelines may be used as alternative evaluation or retrofit criteria for qualifying buildings:
	A.	Meets the requirements of ASCE 31-03 for the Life Safety Performance Level, or
	B.	Meets the requirements of ASCE 41-06 for the Life Safety Performance Level (S- 3) in a BSE-1 earthquake hazard level, or
	C.	Meets the requirements of 2012 IEBC Appendix Chapter A4 or 2009 IEBC Appendix Chapter A4 with NCSEA/SEAOC amendments, or
	D.	Meets the 2010 San Francisco Building Code, Sections 3415  3420.
Signed:
Tom C. Hui, S.E.			7/2/2012
Acting Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on 6/20/2012
Attachment A:	Excerpt from 2012 International Code for Existing Buildings, Appendix Chapters A3 & A4
Attachment B:	Excerpt from FEMA 306: Evaluation of Earthquake Damaged Concrete and Masonry Wall Buildings: Basic Procedures Manual, Chapter 7, Section 5
Attachment C:	Excerpts from CUREE Publication No. EDA-02: General Guidelines for the Assessment and Repair of Earthquake Damage in Residential Woodframe Buildings
AB-105  Voluntary Sprinkler Protection for Existing High-Rise Buildings
NO. AB-105	:DATE	:November 21, 2012 (Updated 01/01/14 for code references)SUBJECT	:Administrative Permit, Fire and Life SafetyTITLE	:Voluntary Sprinkler Protection for Existing High-Rise BuildingsPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Administrative Bulletin is to outline the procedure for documenting voluntary sprinkler protection of select high-rise buildings in DBI’s Permit Tracking System. It applies to existing high-rise buildings that (1) were built before State law required sprinkler protection in high-rise buildings (July 1, 1974) and (2) were excluded from San Francisco’s high- rise sprinkler retrofit ordinance (Ord. 377-93).REFERENCES	:2013 San Francisco Building Code
-  Section 3414.27.1, General
-  Section 3414.27.2, Additional
-  Section 3414.27.3, Permissible omissions
2013  San Francisco Fire Code
-  Section 903.2.15.2, Automatic sprinkler system-existing high-rise buildings
-  Section 4603.4.2, Automatic sprinkler system for existing high-rise buildingsDISCUSSION	:San Francisco has many high-rise buildings that were built before the State required sprinkler protection in high-rise buildings. The City and County of San Francisco passed a high-rise sprinkler retrofit ordinance in 1993 (#377- 93) to address this situation. This ordinance was codified in SFBC Section 3414.27 and SFFC Section 4603.4.2. Basically, the ordinance required complete sprinkler protection in high-rise commercial buildings and tourist hotels built before the State law took effect. It also created a number of technical requirements specifically for high-rise buildings covered by the ordinance. It did not apply to pre-1974 high-rise residential buildings where occupants are primarily permanent in nature (currently classified as R-2 occupancies but classified as R-1 prior to 2008), mixed-use occupancies containing an R-1 or R-2 occupancy, or historic buildings. This Administrative Bulletin is intended to provide a mechanism for pre-1974 high-rise buildings to be recorded as fully sprinklered in DBI’s Permit Tracking System when they are voluntarily sprinklered throughout. It is similar to the process required for high-rise buildings covered by the ordinance but it is voluntary and more streamlined and culminates with an approved Administrative Permit rather than an approved “Umbrella Permit.”
The following criteria and procedures shall be followed to obtain an Administrative Permit for complete sprinkler protection of pre-1974 high-rise buildings exempted from the high-rise sprinkler ordinance.
	A.	Sprinkler Criteria
		1.	Schedule a pre-application meeting with SFFD to resolve applicable San Francisco requirements for the subject building. For example, the San Francisco Fire Code requires new high-rise buildings to have two fire pumps and two on-site water supplies for buildings over 200 feet high, fire department connections on each side of the building facing a street, and two risers per zone. These requirements may or may not be applicable, on a case-by- case basis, for existing pre-1974 high-rise buildings not covered by the ordinance.
		2.	For buildings that do not have any sprinkler protection, the new sprinkler system shall be designed and installed in accordance with the applicable edition of NFPA 13 in effect when the sprinkler permit application is submitted.
		3.	For buildings that are partially sprinklered, the existing sprinkler systems can remain as-is provided (a) the existing sprinkler systems have been maintained, (b) they are zoned on a per floor basis, and (c) the applicable sprinkler permits can be located in DBI’s files. If any of these provisions are not met, the appropriate resolution shall be determined through a pre-application meeting with DBI and SFFD. If any portion of the building is not sprinklered, the new sprinkler system shall be designed and installed in accordance with the applicable edition of NFPA 13 in effect when the sprinkler permit application is submitted.
		4.	For buildings that are believed to be fully sprinklered, proceed to sprinkler special inspection.
	B.	Sprinkler Special Inspection
		1.	The building owner/manager shall engage a fire protection engineer to perform a sprinkler special inspection of the building and prepare a Sprinkler Special Inspection Report. The fire protection engineer shall be licensed in the State of California.
		2.	The sprinkler special inspector shall review DBI’s files to identify previous sprinkler permits for the subject building.
		3.	The sprinkler special inspector shall walk the entire building to verify complete coverage.
		4.	If the building does not have sprinklers in some areas, these deficiencies shall be transmitted to the building owner/manager and corrected by a licensed sprinkler contractor before the Administrative Permit application and Sprinkler Special Inspection Report are submitted for review and approval.
		5.	If the building does not comply with applicable requirements from the San Francisco Fire Code as determined by the pre-application meeting with SFFD (See A.1 above), these deficiencies shall be transmitted to the building owner/manager and corrected by a licensed sprinkler contractor before the Administrative Permit application and Sprinkler Special Inspection Report are submitted for review and approval.
		6.	For buildings that are completely sprinklered and comply with applicable San Francisco requirements, proceed to Sprinkler Special Inspection Report.
	C.	Sprinkler Special Inspection Report
		1.	The sprinkler special inspector shall prepare a Sprinkler Special Inspection Report to be submitted with the Administrative Permit application.
		2.	The Sprinkler Special Inspection Report shall include the block and lot numbers, a brief description of the building, a table listing all sprinkler permits for the building including the sprinkler permit for correcting observed deficiencies, if any, and a statement that the building is fully sprinklered. If any sprinkler permits are still open, they must be closed before the Sprinkler Special Inspection Report is submitted for review and approval.
		3.	The report must be signed and stamped by the sprinkler special inspector.
	D.	Administrative Permit Application
		1.	A standard building permit application and two copies of the Sprinkler Special Inspection Report shall be presented to Initial Permit Review (IPR). The submitter shall clearly state on the form that it is an Administrative Permit to document complete sprinkler protection. There is no construction so the value of construction on the form is $1.00.
		2.	After receiving a permit application number, the submitter shall hand- carry the permit application and Sprinkler Special Inspection Reports to DBI and SFFD stations for approval signatures.
		3.	After receiving all approval signatures and paying all permit fees, a Job Card and approved permit including a copy of the approved Sprinkler Special Inspection Report will be issued.
		4.	Inspection requests shall be made and final signatures obtained on the Job Card from the SFFD and subsequently from the DBI Building Inspector.
	Whenever future renovations are made to an existing high-rise building which has an Administrative Permit confirming complete sprinkler protection, the approved Administrative Permit application number shall be clearly indicated on the permit application for renovations.
Signed by:
Tom C. Hui, S.E.								November 21, 2012
Acting Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by the Building Inspection Commission on 11/21/2012
AB-106  Procedures for Implementation of SFBC Chapter 34B
NO. AB-106	:DATE	:September 19, 2013SUBJECT	:Seismic Strengthening of Soft Story Wood Frame BuildingsTITLE	:Procedures for Implementation of SFBC Chapter 34BPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Bulletin is to establish procedures for implementation of the Mandatory Seismic Retrofit Program for Wood Frame Buildings, Chapter 34B.REFERENCE	:2010 and 2013 San Francisco Building Code
- Chapter 34B, Mandatory Seismic Retrofit Program for Wood Frame Buildings
- Section 104A.2.7.1, Local equivalencies.
- Section 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, design, and methods
Administrative Bulletin AB-107, Application of Engineering Criteria to SFBC 3406BDISCUSSION	:The Mandatory Seismic Retrofit Program for Wood-Frame Buildings was established to support the City’s post-earthquake resilience goals. Compliance with these code requirements is intended to improve building performance by reducing the risk of collapse and increasing the likelihood that an upgraded building will continue to be habitable or repairable. Compliance does not establish any certainty of performance or specific level of building performance.
This bulletin provides information about procedures for administration of the Mandatory Seismic Retrofit Program for Wood-Frame Buildings. Detailed technical criteria and related information regarding this upgrade program for wood-frame buildings may be found in Administrative Bulletin AB-107, Application of Engineering Criteria in SFBC 3406B. 
The requirements of Chapter 34B and the related design criteria represent a minimum standard to reduce earthquake risk. Property owners may undertake seismic retrofit improvements that exceed the requirements of Chapter 34B.
IMPLEMENTATION:
Screening Form
On September 15, 2013, the Department will mail a Notice and Screening Form to all owners of buildings that are within the scope of Chapter 34B. The Screening Form provides a simplified mechanism to determine if buildings must comply with the seismic upgrade requirements of Chapter 34B, and to identify the time frame for building retrofit within a four-tier system. All Screening Forms must be returned to the Department no later than September 15, 2014. Information provided on the Screening Form will be spot-checked by DBI staff; if errors are found or if additional information is required, the Department will contact the property owner or the owner’s designated representative. 
Copies of the Screening Form and detailed instructions for completion and submittal of this form are available from the Department’s website at www.sfdbi.org/softstory or at the Department offices at 1660 Mission Street, San Francisco. There is no fee for submittal of the Screening Form.
Optional Evaluation Form
A building that has been previously seismically upgraded or which the owner believes may already meet the requirements of Chapter 34B may be exempt from this program if an evaluation confirms that the criteria detailed in Chapter 34B are met. This confirmation may be done using the Optional Evaluation Form process. These forms and detailed instructions for completion and submittal of the form are available on the Department’s website at www.sfdbi.org/softstory or at the Department offices at 1660 Mission Street, San Francisco. A fee for a minimum of two hours of plan review time is due upon submittal of the Optional Evaluation Form. Additional fees may apply if more than two hours is required for plan review.
Plan review by Department of Building Inspection
Building permit applications that are submitted to comply with this program will be reviewed for compliance with acceptable methodologies and appropriate design criteria. Insofar as possible, such review will be done over-the-counter. If over-the-counter review is not an available option, permit applications must be submitted. Such applications will be routed and tracked in accordance with standard Department procedures.
Plan review by other agencies
Review by agencies other than the Department of Building Inspection shall be in accordance with the guidelines set forth by the corresponding department . Where such guidelines do not cover specific issues or concerns, such other agencies will apply their standard plan review guidelines. 
Fees for plan review and permit issuance by all agencies shall be as detailed in codes and regulations.
Specific conditions of approval may be part of permit approval by any City agency. Project sponsors should carefully review all comments and notes on plans and permits regarding such conditions of approval.
Please visit the following websites for further information for permits from other departments.
	http://www.sf-planning.org/
	http://www.sfdpw.org/
	http://www.sf-fire.org/
Triggered code requirements
In accordance with the specific requirements of the San Francisco Building Code, smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors may be required to be installed in a building at the time of this seismic upgrade work. Other work, such as water heater bracing, may also be triggered. Please review the codes and plan review comments for more information about such triggered such work.
In accordance with San Francisco Building Code Chapter 11B, Accessibility to Public Buildings, Public Accommodations, Commercial Buildings and Publically Funded Housing, disability access improvements will be required when seismic upgrade work involves alterations and/or structural repairs. Chapter 11A, Housing Accessibility, may apply in certain unusual cases when a building has undergone a change of use, addition, or provides certain public or common use areas. A design professional or consultant will be able to provide guidance as to the scope of any such required disability access work. 
Modifications, Equivalencies, or Alternates
Any proposal for seismic retrofit work that does not meet the specific technical requirements or the performance criteria detailed in Chapter 34B, in Administrative Bulletin AB-107, or in this administrative bulletin may be considered for administrative approval by the Department of Building Inspection on a case-by-case basis if the requirements of San Francisco Building Code, Section 104A.2, Local Equivalencies and Alternate Materials, Design, and Methods, are met. Such equivalencies or alternatives must be shown to be at least equal to the code requirements and criteria for structural integrity, suitability, strength, effectiveness, durability and safety. Applications for modifications, equivalencies, or alternates should be submitted in accordance with the requirements of Administrative Bulletin AB-005, Procedures for Approval of Local Equivalencies. 
Inspection and Special Inspection
Work undertaken to comply with Chapter 34B must meet all requirements of the San Francisco Building Code including inspections and, when necessary, Special Inspections. Please review approved permits and permit documents regarding any such special inspection requirements.
Completion of Work
Completion of this required seismic upgrade work will result in the issuance of a Certificate of Final Completion (CFC). This CFC will be issued only following final inspection, submittal and approval of any Special Inspection documents, and compliance with all conditions of approval. The CFC document will become part of the permanent record of the building.
Extensions of time to complete work may be granted in accordance with Section 106A4.4, but such extensions may not extend the time beyond the deadline designated in Table 34B-A for completion of required work.
Historic Buildings
Buildings that qualify to use the California Historical Building Code may apply the provisions and analysis techniques referenced in the California Historical Building Code, Chapter 8-7, Structural Regulations, and Chapter 8-8, Archaic Materials and Methods of Construction, and other provisions of that code upon approval of the Department.
To determine if a building can be qualified to use the California Historical Building Code, please contact the Technical Services Division of the Department of Building Inspection at 558-6205.
Optional Earthquake Recording Instrumentation
Building owners are encouraged to provide earthquake recording instrumentation in their buildings. This instrumentation will typically require installation of sensors at the ground level, on the second floor, and at the highest story of a building. Costs of providing instrumentation are modest. The Department may assist in installation and maintenance of earthquake recording instruments in accordance with San Francisco Building Code, Section 1604.12.
Earthquake recording instrumentation provides information about actual building movement. Instrumentation may be valuable to a building owner in providing a clearer understanding of actual building performance in an earthquake, possibly reducing the need for more detailed post- earthquake inspection and evaluation. The information from instrumented buildings will also provide scientists and engineers with a better understanding of the earthquake behavior of buildings. For information about participation in the optional earthquake recording instrumentation program, please contact the Technical Services Division at 558-6205.
ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT
Enforcement and abatement action will be promptly taken by the Department if a property owner fails to comply with any of the requirements of this program, including failure to submit a properly competed Screening Form or other document within the allowable one-year time, submittal of Screening Form or other documents that are found to contain errors or misrepresentations, failure to obtain a building permit or failure to complete all work and obtain a final inspection within the time limits indicated in Table 34B-A, or for any other violation of this code. Such enforcement and abatement action will be in accordance with the requirements of San Francisco Building Code, Section 102A, Unsafe Buildings, Structures or Property. 
In every case, when any required action has not been properly completed within the time limits of Chapter 34B, the Department will post the building with a notice stating:
Earthquake Warning:
This building is in violation of the requirements of the San Francisco Building Code regarding earthquake safety.
This notice may not be removed until the building is in compliance with the requirements of Chapter 34B. The notice shall also be recorded against the title of the property, with a release of this notice filed upon compliance with the requirements of Chapter 34B.
Violation of any code requirement related to the upgrade of these buildings may subject the property owner to penalties detailed in San Francisco Building Code, Section 103A, Violations, including fines of up to $500 per day per violation and other penalties. 
APPEALS
Board of Examiners 
In cases where proposed modifications, equivalencies, or alternates substantially differ from those prescribed in this bulletin, such proposals may be referred by the Department to the Board of Examiners. Determinations made by the Department regarding technical provisions may be appealed by the permit applicant to the Board of Examiners in accordance with San Francisco Building Code, Section 105A.
Building Inspection Commission
Any person may appeal a determination of the Director related to these requirements to the Building Inspection Commission, pursuant to Chapter 77 of the San Francisco Administrative Code. 
RECORDING AND REPORTING
A list of buildings by street address and by block and lot number to which notice has been given regarding this required seismic upgrade program will be maintained and made public on the Department’s website.
The Department will track the status of all buildings noticed under this program and will provide an annual update to the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors regarding the status of compliance.
Tom C. Hui, S.E., C.B.O., 	Date
Acting Director 
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by Building Inspection Commission on 9/18/2013 
Attachment A	Wood-Frame Seismic Retrofit Program: Screening Form
Attachment B	Wood-Frame Seismic Retrofit Program: Screening Form Instructions
Attachment C	Wood-Frame Seismic Retrofit Program: Optional Evaluation Form
AB-107  Application of Engineering Criteria in SFBC Chapter 34B
NO. AB-107	:DATE	:November 12, 2013SUBJECT	:Seismic Strengthening of Soft Story Wood Frame BuildingsTITLE	:Application of Engineering Criteria in SFBC Chapter 34BPURPOSE	:The purpose of this Bulletin is to establish acceptable design criteria, standards and technical provisions for complying with Chapter 34B of the 2010 and 2013 San Francisco Building Code, as amended by Ordinance No. 66-13.REFERENCES	:Chapter 34B, 2010 and 2013 San Francisco Building Code
2012 International Existing Building Code, Appendix Chapter A4
ASCE 31-03, Seismic Evaluation of Existing Buildings
ASCE 41-06, Seismic Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings
ASCE 41-13, Seismic Evaluation and Retrofit of Existing Buildings
FEMA P-807, Seismic Evaluation and Retrofit of Multi-Unit Wood-Frame Buildings With Weak First Stories
Administrative Bulletin AB-106, Procedures for Implementation of SFBC Chapter 34BDISCUSSION	:SFBC Chapter 34B, created with Ordinance 66-13, mandates the seismic retrofit of certain wood-frame residential buildings. Section 3406B.2 allows different criteria, or compliance alternatives. Section 3406B.4 calls for the development and publication of this Administrative Bulletin to “detail the technical requirements to be used for the evaluation and retrofitting of buildings required to meet the criteria established in Section 3406B.2.”SCOPE	:This bulletin covers only SFBC Sections 3406B.2 through 3406B.4. AB-106 covers administrative and procedural requirements of Chapter 34B. This Bulletin is separate from, but intended to be in coordination with, other sections of Chapter 34B, other Administrative Bulletins, and other forms and instructions.
Part A of this Bulletin applies to all projects seeking to comply with Chapter 34B, regardless of the compliance alternative. Parts B through G apply, respectively, to the specific compliance alternatives allowed in Section 3406B.2.
	Part A. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
A1. Compliance
A1.1. Other SFBC requirements and Administrative Bulletins. Alterations and repairs required to meet the provisions of Chapter 34B shall comply with all other applicable structural requirements of the SFBC unless specifically waived by those requirements, by this Bulletin, or by related Administrative Bulletins.
	Commentary: See Administrative Bulletin 106 regarding procedural compliance with SFBC Chapter 34B, specifically Section 3406B.6.
A1.2. Qualified historic buildings. In addition to or in place of the criteria allowed by SFBC Section 3406B.2, qualified historical buildings shall be permitted to use structural engineering criteria provided in the latest edition of the California Historical Building Code (California Code of Regulations Title 24 Part 8), subject to the eligibility requirements of that code.
	Commentary: SFBC Section 3404B.5 also mentions the CHBC, but that provision is about historic preservation in accord with San Francisco Planning Department guidelines and has no direct bearing on the structural engineering criteria. 
A2. Seismicity, Soil, and Geotechnical issues
A2.1. Site Class E. Buildings located in areas labeled “NEHRP E” on the latest USGS map of “Soil Type and Shaking Hazard in the San Francisco Bay Area” will be assigned to Site Class E unless site-specific investigation in accordance with ASCE 7-10 Chapter 20 indicates otherwise.
	Commentary: The map is available online at http://earthquake.usgs.gov/regional/nca/soiltype/map/
A2.2. Site Class F. The requirement in ASCE 7-05 Section 11.4.7 for site response analysis of Site Class F sites is waived.
	Commentary: SFBC Chapter 34B does not require mitigation of existing geologic site hazards such as liquefiable soil. Also, many buildings subject to Chapter 34B would be exempt from site response analysis by the exception to ASCE 7-05 Section 20.3.1.
A2.3. Seismic ground motion values. Where seismic ground motion values are calculated per ASCE 7-05 Section 11.4 or by similar provisions, the value of Fa shall be taken as 1.3 for Site Class E.
	Commentary: This requirement applies to any code-based procedure for calculating seismicity parameters, such as that used by IEBC Appendix Chapter A4 and application of “regular code” provisions through the California Historical Building Code. It also applies where criteria such as ASCE 31, ASCE 41, and FEMA P-807 apply equations similar to those in ASCE 7 Section 11.4.
A3. Assessment of Existing Building Conditions
A3.1. Building investigation and report. In support of an engineering evaluation or retrofit design, the owner shall conduct or cause to be conducted an investigation of the existing building. The engineer of record shall prepare a written report documenting procedures, findings, and conclusions of the investigation. The report may reference other materials submitted to demonstrate compliance or to support findings and conclusions.
A3.1.1. Scope of investigation. At minimum, the investigation shall comply with any investigation and assessment provisions in the engineering criteria selected from SFBC Section 3406B.2, as modified by subsequent Parts of this Bulletin. Otherwise, the investigation scope and methods may generally be set at the discretion of the engineer of record, but all findings shall be reported. The Department is authorized to require additional investigation as needed to fulfill the purpose of the report and the intent of SFBC Chapter 34B. With the approval of the Department, field verification of assumed conditions may be performed during the construction phase.
As needed or required, the investigation shall include identification, verification, and assessment of existing conditions relevant to the engineering assumptions applied in the evaluation or retrofit design. The investigation shall be based on a combination of non-destructive testing or inspection, destructive testing or inspection, and reference to record documents. Where record documents are used to reduce the scope of testing or other on-site work, appropriate field verification is required.
	Commentary: With respect to evaluation, the primary purpose of the investigation is to identify or confirm the nature of the existing construction as needed to justify load drift curves, tributary floor weights, load path assumptions, etc. A secondary purpose is to provide condition assessment sufficient to rule out deterioration or construction defects significant enough to affect earthquake performance of the structure as a whole. The investigation should therefore seek evidence of damage, deterioration, or defective construction sufficient to affect significantly the performance of the seismic force-resisting system. With respect to retrofit design, the primary purpose of the investigation is to confirm design assumptions regarding the adequacy of existing seismic load path components within the context of the retrofitted structure. In addition, though it need not be stated in the provision, the Department is always authorized to require repair of damage, correction of defects, and elimination of dangerous conditions; hence the requirement that “all findings shall be reported.”
A3.1.2. Timing of investigation. Unless otherwise required by the engineering criteria selected from SFBC Section 3406B.2, as modified by subsequent Parts of this Bulletin, with the approval of the Department, investigation may be deferred to a confirmation or construction phase. The deferred investigation shall be specified as a special inspection item in accordance with SFBC Chapter 17.
	Commentary: This allowance is offered for the benefit of owners for cases in which destructive investigation will be unusually disruptive or expensive. However, the owner will bear the risk of change orders, design revisions, and supplemental design review if actual conditions differ from those assumed by the evaluation or design. Approval of the Department is required to allow the Department to identify cases where deferred investigation will complicate its review and approval process. The Department may allow some parts of the investigation to be delayed while requiring other parts of the investigation to be completed prior to review of calculations.
A3.2. Existing materials and components. Where the applicable engineering criteria specify material or structural properties of existing elements, those criteria shall be used. Otherwise, the general rules of this section apply.
A3.2.1. Damage and defects. The capacity of any element damaged by deterioration, wear, or other causes or constructed or altered so as to differ from its intended condition shall be reduced based on the judgment of the engineer of record, subject to review of condition assessment findings and the approval of the Department. This provision shall apply where the applicable engineering criteria do not make an explicit provision for capacity reduction.
	Commentary: This provision is consistent with ASCE 31-03 Section 4.2.4.4.
A3.2.2. Relation of nominal and expected strength to allowable stress. Where element capacities are based on allowable stresses from codes and standards, nominal strengths shall be taken no greater than the allowable stresses multiplied by the following factors: 1.7 for steel; 2.5 for masonry; 2.0 for wood. Where the element is ductile or deformation-controlled, the expected strength shall be taken as 1.25 times the nominal strength.
	Commentary: This provision is consistent with ASCE 31-03 Section 4.2.4.4.
A3.2.3. Concrete footings and stem walls. Evaluation and design of existing concrete footings shall be permitted to assume default concrete strength based on ASCE 41-13.
A3.2.4. Unreinforced brick footings. The capacity of an existing brick footing to resist shear or pullout of an existing or new anchor shall be established by testing or by reference to approved tests of similar conditions. Where the capacity of an anchor is limited by failure of the footing or grout, the anchored wall or frame element shall be considered non-ductile or force-controlled.
	Commentary: Because FEMA P-807 presumes ductile retrofit elements, the last sentence of this provision means that retrofit elements designed with FEMA P-807 may only be used with brick footings when testing has demonstrated that the anchor will develop the strength of the wall or frame element or will yield itself in a ductile fashion.
A3.2.5. Concrete or masonry retaining walls.
Reserved.
A3.2.6. Sheathed wood-frame walls and partitions. Wood-frame walls and partitions shall be permitted to use peak strength values from Bulletin Section B5.1.1. Where these values are used, they shall be taken as expected strengths and reduced to nominal strength per Bulletin Section A3.2.2 where used on non-ductile or force-controlled elements. This provision is subject to the following limitations:
1.	A wall assembly may be considered deformation-controlled if all sheathing materials that are individually force-controlled are ignored in the strength calculation.
2.	Retrofit designs based on R values from the building code shall use only code-approved sheathing materials and combinations appropriate to the assumed R value.
A3.2.7. Steel anchor bolts at wood sill plates.
Reserved
A4. Structural Calculations and Project Documentation
A4.1. Submittals. Structural calculations and supporting documents shall be prepared and submitted as required by Bulletin Section A4.2. Other documents shall be prepared and submitted as required by Administrative Bulletin 106.
A4.2. Structural calculations and supporting documents. Structural calculations shall be submitted as required to confirm compliance with the selected engineering criteria. Calculations shall be specific to the engineering criteria used and shall include, at minimum: 
1.	A statement that the evaluation or retrofit design was prepared to demonstrate compliance with SFBC Chapter 34B.
2.	Identification of the engineering criteria used for the evaluation or retrofit design, including the performance objective used with FEMA P-807, ASCE 41-06, or ASCE 41-13.
3.	All building investigation, soils, geotechnical, or other supporting reports, as well as a summary of such reports indicating how the findings or conclusions are reflected in the structural calculations.
4.	Identification of structural properties and capacities assumed for all existing materials and elements, including any capacity reductions for damage, deterioration, or defect.
5.	Identification of structural properties and capacities assumed for all new materials and elements, including product literature for proprietary devices.
6.	If requested by the Department, verification calculations for any engineering software used.
7.	Other information as required by the Department.
A5. Construction Quality Assurance
A5.1 Testing and inspection. All work shall comply with inspection and testing requirements of the building code as they apply to existing buildings and structures. Additional field verification, structural observation, testing, and inspection may be required in accordance with the selected engineering criteria or as directed by the Department.
	Part B.  APPLICATION OF FEMA P-807 TO EVALUATION AND RETROFIT DESIGN
DISCUSSION	:FEMA P-807, unlike the other documents cited by Section 3406B.2, is not a code or standard and is written in a guideline or narrative style. Enforceable provisions in “code language” are therefore provided here, adapted from FEMA P-807 Appendix B. In general, use of FEMA P-807 for compliance with SFBC Chapter 34B shall mean compliance with the code language provisions in this Bulletin; FEMA P-807 itself constitutes a commentary to these provisions.B1. Compliance
B1.1. Performance Objective
B1.1.1. Hazard level. The spectral demand shall be 0.5SMS, calculated in accordance with ASCE 7-05 Section 11.4 except that for sites in Site Class E, the value of Fa shall be taken as 1.3. 
	Commentary: The value of Fa is modified for Site Class E to adjust the demand for site effects not considered explicitly in the development of FEMA P-807 (see FEMA P-807 section 2.6.1).
B1.1.2. Performance level. Acceptable performance shall be based on drifts corresponding to the Onset of Strength Loss in the seismic force-resisting wood-frame elements.
	Commentary: This provision merely reflects the requirements of the ordinance, referencing the Onset of Strength Loss performance level defined in FEMA P-807. It does not require any additional work by the engineer, since the Onset of Strength Loss criteria are already embedded in the criteria given in this Bulletin.
B1.1.3. Maximum drift limit probability of exceedance. The maximum drift limit POE for evaluation or retrofit design shall be 30 percent.
Exception: Where the story or underfloor area subject to evaluation or retrofit contains only parking, storage, or utility uses or occupancies, the maximum drift limit POE for evaluation or for retrofit design shall be 50 percent, as long as the additional requirements of Bulletin Section B7.3 are met.
	Commentary: This Exception incorporates the alternative criteria given in SFBC Section 3406B.3. The alternative criteria apply to what FEMA P-807 calls “optimized retrofit,” as discussed in FEMA P-807 Sections 6.3.1 and 6.4.2.
B1.2. Required scope of work. Compliance with the provisions of SFBC Chapter 34B using FEMA P-807 requires:
1.	Correction of all aspects of eligibility non-compliance per Bulletin Section B3, and
2.	Correction of all building survey non-compliance per Bulletin Section B4, and either
3a.	Demonstration of an acceptable existing condition per Bulletin Section B6, or 
3b.	Design and execution of a retrofit in accordance with Bulletin Section B7 and other applicable codes and regulations.
Where retrofit is required but the provisions of Bulletin Section B7 cannot be satisfied, the building shall be considered ineligible for compliance with SFBC Chapter 34B using FEMA P- 807.
B2. Definitions
	Commentary: In some instances, the notation and terminology differ slightly from those in FEMA P-807 Chapters 1-7.
B2.1. Terminology. Terms used in Bulletin Part B shall have the meanings provided here. Terms not defined here shall have the meanings provided in the building code.
CENTER OF STRENGTH. At each story, the location in plan that represents the weighted average location of the load in all wall lines, at the drift associated with the story strength.
DRIFT. For a given story, the calculated or postulated lateral deflection within that story divided by the story height, normally expressed as a percentage.
FIRST STORY. The story of interest with respect to evaluation or retrofit, spanning vertically between the first floor and the second floor. Depending on the building and its relationship to grade, the story designated as the First Story can be an underfloor area or cripple story, a basement, the first story above grade, or another story above grade. The First Story can be partial in plan. For a building with multiple stories of interest, the First Story can vary as each story of interest is analyzed.
LOAD-DRIFT CURVE. For a wall assembly, wall line, or story, the relationship characterizing the variation of shear resistance versus drift, for the full range of relevant drifts. For a wall assembly, the load value is given in units of force per unit length. For wall lines and stories, the load value is given in units of force.
LOAD-ROTATION CURVE. For a story, the relationship characterizing the variation of torsional resistance versus story rotation, for the full range of relevant rotations, given in units of torque as a function of rotation angle.
PROBABILITY OF EXCEEDANCE (POE). The desired or calculated probability that the structure will respond beyond the drift limits representing the desired performance level, in at least one direction, when subjected to a specified hazard level. Within SFBC Chapter 34B and this Bulletin, POE means the probability of exceeding the drift limits associated with Onset of Strength Loss.
	Commentary: As used in SFBC Chapter 34B and this Bulletin, POE is identical to what FEMA P-807 Chapters 1 through 7 typically call “drift limit POE.”
QUALIFYING WALL LINE. For purposes of checking eligibility of floor or roof diaphragms, a wall line that contributes substantially to the peak story strength and has an adequate load path connecting it to the diaphragms it affects.
	Commentary: See FEMA P-807 Section 2.6.4 for discussion of rules for “qualifying” wall lines. The definition is subject to the judgment of the engineer of record and the Department.
SPECTRAL CAPACITY. For a given POE, the highest level of spectral acceleration a structure can sustain without responding beyond the drift limits representing the desired performance level, given as a multiple of the acceleration of gravity, and calculated separately in each principal direction.
SPECTRAL DEMAND. See Bulletin Section B1.1.1. The spectral demand is given as a multiple of the acceleration of gravity.
STORY. For purposes of applying engineering criteria in SFBC Section 3406B and this Bulletin, see the building code definition and this Bulletin’s definition of First Story. The definition in SFBC Section 3403B applies only to the counting of stories for determining scope per SFBC Section 3402B.
STORY STRENGTH. The maximum load value from the story load-drift curve, calculated separately in each principal direction.
STORY STRENGTH, BASE-NORMALIZED. The story strength divided by the total seismic weight of the building.
STORY STRENGTH, STORY-NORMALIZED. The story strength divided by the sum of the tributary floor weights of all the floors above the story in question.
STORY TORSIONAL STRENGTH. The maximum torsional resistance value from the story load-rotation curve.
STRENGTH DEGRADATION RATIO. In each direction, a value between 0.0 and 1.0 calculated as the first story strength divided by the load corresponding to a drift of 3 percent from the first story load-drift curve.
TORSION COEFFICIENT. A value that need not be taken greater than 1.4, calculated as the first story torsional demand divided by the first story torsional strength.
TORSIONAL ECCENTRICITY. The absolute value of the plan distance, in x and y components, between the second story center of strength and the first story center of strength.
TRIBUTARY FLOOR WEIGHT. The total seismically active weight tributary to a single floor level comprising dead load and applicable live load, snow weight, and other loads as required by the building code.
UPPER STORY. Any story above the first story.
WALL ASSEMBLY. A unique combination of sheathing materials over wood-stud framing.
WALL LINE. A collection of full-height and partial-height wall segments or frames within a single story that satisfies the rules in Bulletin Section B5.1.2.
	Commentary: A wood-frame wall line is generally assumed to contribute strength only in the direction parallel to its length. A wall line expected to contribute strength in a direction other than parallel to its length, such as a cantilever column or fixed-based moment frame, must be modeled appropriately.
WALL SEGMENT. A portion of wood-frame wall made from a single wall assembly. For purposes of this definition, any sheathed run of wood-stud framing that could contribute to a story’s lateral strength or stiffness shall be considered a potential wall segment, whether or not the framing and sheathing were intentionally designed, detailed, sized, or located to contribute that strength or stiffness.
B2.2. Notation
AU 	The base-normalized upper-story strength, calculated separately for each direction.
AW 	The weak-story ratio, calculated separately for each direction.
CD 	The strength degradation ratio, calculated separately for each direction.
CT 	The torsion coefficient.
CU 	The minimum of the story-normalized story strengths of any of the upper stories, calculated separately for each direction.
 	Commentary: Where the story strength is roughly constant for all upper stories, CU will generally be the story-normalized strength of the second story.
COSi 	The plan location, in x and y coordinates, of the center of strength of story i.
ex, ey 	The x and y components, respectively, of the torsional eccentricity.
fw 	The load-drift curve for wall line w.
Fi 	The load-drift curve for story i, calculated separately for each direction.
hw 	The floor-to-ceiling height of wall line w.
H1 	The floor-to-ceiling height of the tallest first story wall line, determined separately in each direction.
I 	A subscript index indicating floor or story. Story i is between floor i and floor i+1.
Lw 	The length of wall line w, taken as the longest possible length of wall that satisfies the rules in Bulletin Section B5.1.2, including the length of any openings within it.
Lx 	The overall building dimension in the x direction.
Ly 	The overall building dimension in the y direction.
POE 	Probability of Exceedance
Qopen 	The adjustment factor for openings in a wall line.
Qot 	The adjustment factor for overturning of a wall line.
Qs 	The story height factor for the first story, calculated separately for each principal direction.
Sc 	The spectral capacity, calculated separately for each direction.
Sd 	The spectral demand.
ti 	The load-rotation curve for story i.
Ti 	The story torsional strength of story i.
V1r 	The story strength of the retrofitted first story, calculated separately for each direction.
Vi 	The story strength of story i, calculated separately for each direction.
VU 	The story strength of the upper story that determines the value of CU.
 	Commentary: Where the story strength is roughly constant for all upper stories, VU will generally be the second story strength.
w 	A subscript index indicating a single wall line.
W 	The total seismic weight of the building, equal to the sum of all the tributary floor weights.
Wi 	The tributary floor weight of floor i.
WSP 	Wood structural panel
x 	A subscript index indicating one of two principal directions.
aPOE,0 	The POE adjustment factor for a CD value of 0.0.
aPOE,1 	The POE adjustment factor for a CD value of 1.0.
dj 	Drifts at which load-drift curves are characterized. See Table B5.1.1.
Di 	In each direction, the drift at which the story strength of story i occurs.
t1 	The first story torsional demand.
B3. Eligibility
B3.1. General. Buildings that do not comply with the requirements of Bulletin Section B3 shall be considered ineligible for compliance using FEMA P-807.
Exception: Buildings in which all aspects of non-compliance will be eliminated through alteration or retrofit are eligible for compliance using FEMA P-807.
B3.2. Massing
1.	The building has no more than four stories above grade plane at any point around its perimeter.
2.	The building’s wood-framed stories are not supported by an above-grade podium structure.
	Commentary: Item 1 relies on the building code’s definition of story above grade plane. Item 2 is referring to a concrete podium structure generally extending at least one story above grade and topped by a concrete diaphragm that provides a base for wood framing above. Item 2 is not intended to rule out concrete foundation elements or stem walls that extend above grade.
B3.3. Upper stories
1.	The upper-story seismic force-resisting systems are bearing wall or building frame systems of wood-frame walls with shear panels.
2.	The upper-story floor-to-floor heights are between 8 feet and 12 feet and are constant within each story.
3.	In each upper story, in each principal direction, the distance from the center of strength to the center of mass of the floor below it is no more than 25 percent of the corresponding building dimension.
	Commentary: The intent of this approximate rule is to ensure that no upper story is prone to significant torsion, and that inertial forces from upper stories should transfer to the first story near the geometric center of the second floor. See FEMA P-807 Section 2.6.2.
4.	No upper story or floor above an upper story has a weight irregularity as defined by ASCE/SEI 7-05 Table 12.3-2, Type 2.
5.	No upper story has a vertical geometric irregularity as defined by ASCE/SEI 7-05 Table 12.3-2, Type 3.
B3.4. First story, basement and foundation
1.	The first story height may vary, but the maximum first story height, from top of foundation to top of second floor framing is between 8 feet and 15 feet.
2.	The first story seismic force-resisting systems are bearing wall or building frame systems of wood-frame walls with shear panels or combine such systems with steel moment-resisting frame systems, steel cantilever column systems, or steel buckling-restrained braced frame systems.
	Commentary: FEMA P-807 is not suitable for evaluating or designing concentrically braced frames, concrete shear walls, or reinforced masonry shear walls. See FEMA P-807 Section 6.5. If these systems exist or are proposed for as retrofit elements, compliance must be demonstrated using one of the other methods allowed by SFBC Section 3406B.2.
3.	The first story includes no full-height concrete or masonry walls.
	Commentary: Buildings with full-height concrete or masonry walls at the full perimeter of the story of interest are expected to be exempt from SFBC Chapter 34B. Buildings with a combination of full-height concrete or masonry walls and other systems (wood-frame walls, steel moment frames, etc.) might be required to comply with SFBC Chapter 34B but will not be able to use FEMA P-807 to demonstrate compliance.
4.	The first story walls and frames have continuous concrete footings or concrete slab-on- grade foundations. If some or all of the first floor is raised over a crawl space, the crawl space has concrete stem walls to the underside of the first floor framing.
	Commentary: Concrete stem walls are considered to provide a base similar to a concrete foundation. Wood-framed cripple walls, whether braced or unbraced by sheathing of any type, are not adequate to meet this provision.
5.	First story walls and frames may be partial height over a concrete or reinforced masonry retaining wall or foundation stem wall, but any partial-height wall or frame is at least four feet tall from top of stem wall to underside of second floor framing.
6.	If the building has a basement, the basement walls and the floor diaphragm just above them are capable of transferring seismic forces between the foundation and the first story, and the basement story is laterally stronger than the first story above it.
B3.5. Floor and roof diaphragms. Floor and roof diaphragms shall satisfy the eligibility requirements of this subsection.
Exception: Diaphragms shown to have no deficiencies or irregularities that would prevent development of the strength of any seismic force-resisting wall or frame or would otherwise control the overall seismic response of the structure need not satisfy the eligibility requirements in this subsection.
	Commentary: The intent of these approximate rules for diaphragms is to ensure that the structure does not develop a premature mechanism or failure mode. See FEMA P-807 Section 2.6.4 for additional explanation and guidance.
1.	No portion of the second floor diaphragm between qualifying wall lines has an aspect ratio greater than 2:1.
2.	The second floor diaphragm does not cantilever more than 25 feet from a qualifying wall line.
3.	If the second floor diaphragm cantilevers more than 10 feet from a qualifying wall line, diaphragm chords are adequate to develop the lesser of the strength of the diaphragm or the diaphragm forces associated with the peak strength of the qualifying wall line.
4.	No floor or roof diaphragm has a reentrant corner irregularity in which either projecting leg of the diaphragm beyond the reentrant corner is longer than 15 percent of the corresponding plan dimension of the building, unless each leg of the diaphragm satisfies the aspect ratio and cantilever rules of this subsection.
	Commentary: This provision differs from the irregularity defined in ASCE/SEI 31-03 or as Type 2 in ASCE/SEI 7-05 Table 12.3-1 in order to limit diaphragm demands. See FEMA P- 807 Section 2.6.4.
5.	No floor or roof diaphragm has a vertical offset unless load path components are present and adequate to develop the diaphragm strength across the offset.
6.	No floor or roof diaphragm has cutouts or openings within it such that, along any line across the diaphragm, the sum of the opening widths along that line is more than 25 percent of the overall diaphragm dimension along that line.
B4. Building Survey
B4.1. General. Structural components shall be investigated in accordance with Bulletin Section B4 as needed to confirm eligibility per Bulletin Section B3 and to support structure characterization per Bulletin Section B5, evaluation per Bulletin Section B6, and retrofit design per Bulletin Section B7.
B4.2. Wall framing and sheathing. The investigation shall determine the length and location in plan of all wall segments and wall lines in all stories as needed to calculate load-drift curves.
The investigation shall determine the size and location of openings in each wall line as needed to calculate adjustment factors for openings and adjustment factors for overturning.
The investigation shall determine all unique frames or wall assemblies in the first story and representative wall assemblies in the upper stories. Where sheathing includes wood structural panels or where sheathing load-drift data is a function of nailing, the investigation shall also determine the nail size and edge nail spacing. Panel edge nailing shall be investigated over at least five nail spaces and as needed to confirm a reliable spacing assumption.
	Commentary: Unless building-specific conditions indicate a need for more extensive investigation, the minimum recommended investigation should include one location of each distinct wall assembly in the first story and in any upper story, but not less than one perimeter and one interior wall line in the first story and in any upper story. If prior investigation reports based on destructive investigation are available, they may be relied on. If original drawings are available, they may be relied on to reduce the scope of investigation, but some investigation is still necessary to confirm the reliability of the drawings.
B4.3. Floor and roof framing and diaphragm. The investigation shall determine the construction of floor and roof framing and diaphragm sheathing, including the direction of framing and the mechanism of gravity load transfer, as needed for calculation of adjustment factors for overturning. The second floor shall be investigated. Subject to approval of the Department, the roof and upper floors need not be investigated in detail where there is evidence that their relevant attributes are similar to those of the second floor.
B4.4. Load path components. The investigation shall determine the nature of the load path components and connections for transfer of forces between diaphragms and walls or frames as needed to confirm that the wall line will participate in resisting drift.
	Commentary: For non-WSP sheathing, the intent is to confirm that fastening reasonably conforms to conventional construction requirements. For existing WSP shear walls with nail spacing closer than six inches, it should be confirmed at representative locations that shear wall top and bottom connection capacity is appropriate to the sheathing capacity.
The investigation shall determine the presence or absence of hold-down hardware at the base of all first story walls, as well as the adequacy of installation of representative types at representative locations.
The investigation shall confirm that anchors are provided at the base of the first story walls.
Table B4.4 shows where the load path may be assumed adequate or is subject to investigation or confirmation. Table B4.4 applies only to walls whose strength is counted in the analysis. For any condition subject to investigation, the load path may be assumed lacking, and the corresponding wall strength may be ignored, but only if assumed so consistently throughout the building.
	Commentary: The load path may be assumed lacking, but not selectively so as to “correct” torsion or other irregularities. This provision is similar to ASCE 31 and ASCE 41 limits on the designation of secondary components.
Exception: Wherever the strength of two stories is being compared, an adequate load path must be assumed for all walls and partitions in the upper story.
	Commentary: The exception prevents underestimating the upper story strength. The exception will apply for calculations of weak story or soft story ratio in ASCE 31/41, IEBC A4, and other code-based procedures; application of the 1.3 cap on retrofit strength for ASCE 41 and IEBC A4 retrofits; and calculation of spectral capacity with FEMA P-807.
The adequacy of an investigated load path may be confirmed by the judgment of the design professional, without calculations, but is subject to approval by the Department. Judgment should be based on the presence of a positive connection with multiple or redundant attachments distributed over the length of the wall line. For partitions perpendicular to floor framing above, blocking between floor joists nailed to the partition top plate (through a lath nailer, if present) should be deemed adequate for partitions with non-WSP sheathing.
	Table B4.4. Investigation Requirements for Load Path between Partitions and Floor Framing Above
ConditionFirst / Target StorySecond / Upper StoriesPerimeter walls with non-WSP sheathingMay be assumed adequateMay be assumed adequateDemising walls/partitions between units or between units and common areasMay be assumed adequateMay be assumed adequateAny wall or partition with WSP sheathing where the top of the panel is nailed directly to a header beam, floor girder, or rim joistMay be assumed adequateMay be assumed adequateAny wall or partition with WSP sheathing where the top of the panel is nailed only to a single or double top plate.Confirm or provide load pathConfirm or provide load pathRoom partitions within units, perpendicular to floor framing aboveInvestigateMay be assumed adequateRoom partitions within units, parallel to floor framing aboveInvestigateInvestigate
B4.5. Foundation elements. The investigation shall determine the nature of the existing foundation elements and supporting soils as needed for calculation of adjustment factors for overturning.
B5. Structure Characterization
B5.1. Story strength
B5.1.1. Wall assemblies. For each wall assembly present, a load-drift curve shall be computed by summing contributions from Table B5.1.1 at each drift level for each layer of sheathing. With approval of the Department, test results specific to the wall assembly or its components may be used in place of Table B5.1.1.
Commentary: See FEMA P-807 Section 4.4 and Appendix F regarding the development of Table B5.1.1 and the use of alternate test data.
The values in Table B5.1.1 are subject to the following additional requirements:
1.	Horizontal wood sheathing or wood siding shall be at least 1/2" thick and fastened to existing studs with at least two nails per board per stud. Otherwise, the expected strength shall be taken as 0.
2.	Where siding panel edges are lapped, each panel shall be nailed separately. Otherwise, the expected strength shall be taken as 0.
	Table B5.1.1. Expected Strength for Load-Drift Curves [plf]
Sheathing Material Drift, j [%]0.50.71.01.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 4 5Stucco3333202620----------Horizontal wood sheath- ing or wood siding85961101321451571710--Diagonal wood sheathing4295406869130--------Plaster on wood lath4405384143910--------Plywood panel siding 
(T1-11), 6d@63544204965495655054490--Gypsum wallboard2022132041851721511451070Plaster on gypsum lath4023473040----------WSP, 8d@65216217328128367456860--WSP, 8d@45136848269431,0181,0801,1127980WSP, 8d@31,0721,1951,3181,4821,6121,6641,6861,6380WSP, 8d@21,3931,5531,7131,9262,0962,1632,1922,1300WSP, 10d@65487679461,0231,0381,0551,0658430WSP, 10d@47079901,2751,4201,4661,4961,4961,1850WSP, 10d@39401,3161,6961,8891,9491,9901,9901,5760WSP, 10d@21,1201,5681,9992,2482,4052,5122,5122,2310B5.1.1.1. Wall assemblies without wood structural panel sheathing. The assembly load drift curve is the sum of the load drift curves for each of the sheathing layers.
B5.1.1.2. Wall assemblies with wood structural panel sheathing. The assembly load drift curve is whichever of the following two load-drift curves has the larger peak strength:
1.	The assembly load-drift curve using 50 percent of the strength of the wood structural panel layers and 100 percent of the strength of the other sheathing materials.
2.	The assembly load-drift curve using 100 percent of the strength of the wood structural panel layers and 50 percent of the strength of the other sheathing materials.
B5.1.2. Wall line assignment. Each segment of sheathed wall framing within a story shall be assigned to a wall line. Wall lines shall satisfy the following rules:
1.	Full-height wall segments separated by window or door openings but connected by sheathed segments and continuous framing above or below the opening shall be assigned to the same wall line, unless other rules require them to be treated separately.
2.	Wall segments assigned to the same wall line shall not be offset out-of-plane from adjacent segments by more than four feet.
3.	At bay windows, the wall segments within the common plane shall be assigned to the same wall line if they satisfy the other rules, but the wall segments within the cantilevered portions of the bay shall not be counted toward the wall-line strength.
4.	Wall segments of different heights, including wall segments along a stepped foundation, shall be assigned to separate wall lines.
5.	A wall segment of varying height due to a sloped foundation shall be assigned to a separate wall line, and its height shall be taken as the average height of the segment.
6.	Wall segments of different wall assemblies shall be assigned to separate wall lines.
7.	Where hold-downs exist at each end of a wall segment, that segment may be considered a separate wall line.
8.	Wall segments less than one foot long shall be treated as openings.
9.	Wall segments between openings with height-to-length ratios greater than 8:1 shall be treated as openings.
10.	Steel elements (moment frames, cantilever columns, etc.) shall be assigned to separate wall lines.
11.	Wall segments or frames considered to have significant damage, deterioration, or construction defects may be counted toward a wall line’s strength but shall have their load-drift strength values reduced.
B5.1.3. Wall line load-drift curve. For each wall line, a load-drift curve shall be computed by multiplying the applicable wall assembly load-drift curve by the wall line’s length and by applicable adjustment factors per Bulletin Equation B5.1.3-1.
fw = (vw)(Lw)(Qopen)(Qot)	(Equation B5.1.3-1) 
where:
fw is the load-drift curve of wall line w, expressed as a function of drift.
vw is the load-drift curve of the wall assembly associated with wall line w, as derived per Bulletin Section B5.1.1 and adjusted for height variation per Bulletin Section B5.1.3.1.
B5.1.3.1. Adjustment for height variation. Where first story wall lines in a given direction are of different heights, the load-drift curve of the wall assembly of each wood-frame wall line shall be adjusted to account for increased drift demands in all but the tallest first story wall line. This may be done by shifting the assembly load-drift curve from the standard set of drifts given in Table B5.1.1 to an adjusted set of drifts for each wall line, given by Equation B5.1.3.1-1.
djh = (dj)(hw/H1)0.7	(Equation B5.1.3.1-1)
B5.1.3.2 Adjustment for openings. Each wall line load-drift curve shall account for the effects of openings within it. This may be done by applying the adjustment factor for openings, given by Equation B5.1.3.2-1 and Equation B5.1.3.2-2.
Qopen = 0.92a – 0.72a2 + 0.80a3	(Equation B5.1.3.2-1)

	 (Equation B5.1.3.2-2)


where:
SAo	= sum of the areas of the openings within the wall line
SLf	= sum of the lengths of the full-height wall segments within the wall line.
B5.1.3.3. Adjustment for overturning. Each wall line load-drift curve shall account for the effects of overturning demand and resistance. This may be done by applying the adjustment factor for overturning, given by Equation B5.1.3.3-1 or, for existing upper-story wall lines only, by Table B5.1.3.3.

	 (Equation B5.1.3.3-1)

where Mot is the overturning demand on the wall line and Mr is the resisting moment due to all available dead loads tributary to the wall line plus the effects of any tie-down hardware.
	Commentary: See FEMA P-807 Section 4.5.3.2 for guidance on calculating Qot.
	Table B5.1.3.3. Default Adjustment Factor for Overturning, Qot , for Existing Upper Story Wall Lines
Number of stories abovePerpendicular to FramingParallel to FramingUnknown or mixedTwo or more0.950.850.85One0.850.800.80None (Top story)0.750.750.75B5.1.4. Story load-drift curves. For each story, in each direction, a load-drift curve shall be computed by adding the load-drift curves of all the walls in that story and aligned in that direction.
	Commentary: Where all the wall line load-drift curves are mapped to the same set of drifts, the summation is straightforward. Where some first story wall lines have load-drift curves mapped to a height-adjusted set of drifts, load values at the standard drift values should be determined by linear interpolation. Once interpolated values are calculated, the various load- drift curves can again be added in a straightforward way based on the standard drift values. See FEMA P-807 Section 4.6 for additional discussion.
B5.2. First story torsion
B5.2.1. Center of strength. The center of strength for the first and second stories shall be determined based on the wall line loads at the drift at which the story strength in the corresponding story and direction occurs.
	Commentary: FEMA P-807 Section 4.6.4 illustrates the calculation of the center of strength.
B5.2.2. First story torsional demand. The first story torsional demand represents the effect of the first story strength acting at the torsional eccentricity, given by Equation B5.2.2-1.
t1 = exV1y + eyV1x	(Equation B5.2.2-1)
B5.2.3. First story load-rotation curve. For the first story, a load-rotation curve shall be derived, relating torsion about the story center of strength to the resulting rotation of the story, assuming a rigid second floor diaphragm and accounting for the load-drift behavior of each first story wall line. The load-rotation curve shall consider rotation angles up to at least the rotation associated with 5 percent in-plane drift in at least one first story wall line.
	Commentary: FEMA P-807 Section 4.6.6 illustrates one method for calculating of the load-rotation curve, dividing the rotation range of interest into ten even increments.
B5.3. Characteristic coefficients
B5.3.1. Base-normalized upper-story strength. The base-normalized upper-story strength shall be calculated for each principal direction per Equation B5.3.1-1.
	(Equation B5.3.1-1)

B5.3.2. Weak-story ratio. The weak-story ratio shall be calculated for each principal direction per Equation B5.3.2-1.
	(Equation B5.3.2-1)

B5.3.3. Strength degradation ratio. The strength degradation ratio, CD, shall be calculated for each principal direction based on the first story load-drift curves.
	Commentary: FEMA P-807 Section 4.7.4 illustrates the calculation of the strength degradation ratio.
B5.3.4. Torsion coefficient. The torsion coefficient, given by Equation B5.3.4- 1, need not be taken greater than 1.4.
	(Equation B5.3.4-1)

B5.3.5. Story height factor. The story height factor shall be calculated for each principal direction per Equation B5.3.5-1, where H1 is given in inches.
Qs = 0.55 + 0.0047 H1	(Equation B5.3.5-1)
B6. Evaluation
B6.1. Evaluation relative to the performance objective. Subject to the additional requirements of Bulletin Section B1.2, any eligible structure shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of this Bulletin if its spectral capacity in each principal direction exceeds the spectral demand.
B6.1.1. Spectral capacity. Spectral capacity in each direction shall be calculated from Equations B6.1.1-1 through B6.1.1-5, using drift limit POE adjustment factors given in Table B6.1.1 for the drift limit POE specified in Bulletin Section B1.1.3. Drift limit POE adjustment factors for intermediate values of drift limit POE shall be calculated by linear interpolation.
	Commentary: SFBC Chapter 34B does not require the calculation of a POE. However, given a spectral demand, the POE of a structure can be calculated. See FEMA P-807 Section 5.4.2 or Appendix B model provision 6.2.
	(Equation B6.1.1-1)

	(Equation B6.1.1-2)

	(Equation B6.1.1-3)

	(Equation B6.1.1-4)

	(Equation B6.1.1-5)

Table B6.1.1. Drift limit probability of exceedance adjustment factors.
POEPOE,1POE,02%0.360.295%0.440.3710%0.530.4620%0.660.630%0.770.7350%1160%1.141.1670%1.31.3780%1.521.66
B7. Retrofit
B7.1. Retrofitted first story strength. The first story strength of the retrofitted structure shall account for all existing unaltered elements, existing altered elements, new elements provided to increase story strength, and new elements provided to correct aspects of eligibility or building survey non-compliance.
Exception: Out-of-plane or weak axis strength of existing or retrofit elements need not be considered where the sum of those strengths is deemed insignificant to the total story strength.
	Commentary: The Exception is intended to allow wood frame walls and pin-based frames to be ignored in their weak directions, and to allow the Department to accept the engineer’s judgment or to require modeling of fixed-based frames and cantilever columns in their weak directions.
B7.2. Retrofit compliance. The retrofit design shall demonstrate that both of the following conditions are true:
1.	The retrofitted structure’s spectral capacity in each principal direction exceeds the spectral demand.
2.	The first story strength of the retrofitted structure in each principal direction satisfies Equation B7.2-1.
	(Equation B7.2-1)

	Commentary: The intent of Equation B7.2-1 is to ensure that over-strengthening the first story is not miscounted as beneficial. Given the maximum POE, if the required first story strength cannot be achieved without exceeding this limit, it indicates that the proposed retrofit would push failure to the second story and would not achieve its intended effect. Where the exception to Bulletin Section B1.1.3 is applied, the higher POE value will give the same spectral capacity for less first story strength, effectively allowing a lighter retrofit that might satisfy the equation.
	FEMA P-807 Section 6.2.1 provides formulas for estimating the strength of the retrofitted first story needed to reach the required spectral capacity, but use of the estimating formulas is not required.
B7.3 Additional requirements where the Exception to Bulletin Section B1.1.3 is applied. The retrofit design shall demonstrate that all of the following additional conditions is true:
1.	The first story strength of the retrofitted structure in each principal direction satisfies Equation B7.3-1.
2.	The retrofit design satisfies the requirements of Bulletin Section B7.3.1.
	(Equation B7.3-1)

B7.3.1 Minimized torsional eccentricity. Retrofit elements shall be located along perimeter wall lines so as to minimize the torsional eccentricity of the retrofitted structure, or so as to satisfy Equations B7.3.1-1 and B7.3.1-2. This requirement may be waived with the approval of the Department to accommodate other building or planning code requirements or to avoid disproportionate construction costs.
	(Equation B7.3.1-1)

	(Equation B7.3.1-2)

B7.4 Design criteria for retrofit elements. Retrofit elements shall conform to the general requirements in this section and to the applicable requirements in the following subsections.
	Commentary: See Bulletin Section B3.4 for discussion of retrofit systems for which FEMA P-807 is suitable.
1.	Where retrofit elements are sized based on unit strengths from codes or standards, the expected strength, without strength reductions or resistance factors, may be used.
	Commentary: The allowance of expected strength, which is typically greater than nominal strength (see Bulletin Section A3.2.2) is appropriate because FEMA P-807 requires retrofit elements to be ductile (or, in ASCE 31 or ASCE 41 terms, deformation-controlled).
2.	The load-drift curve of each retrofit element type shall be based on expected material properties, including overstrength. The full expected capacity, without strength reduction or resistance factors, shall be used to calculate load-drift curves and peak strengths.
3.	Each retrofit element shall be such that a load-drift curve based on similar elements alone would have a strength degradation ratio, CD, greater than or equal to 0.8.
4.	The load-drift curve of each retrofit element type shall be defined up to five percent interstory drift or as needed to fully characterize the retrofit design per Bulletin Section B5.
5.	Materials and systems for all retrofit elements shall be generally consistent with provisions of the building code for new construction of the same occupancy and risk category. 2012 IBC Section 3401.4.2 and other provisions that allow like materials for alterations do not apply to retrofits mandated by SFBC Chapter 34B. However, the Department may waive restrictions on certain systems based on building height, irregularity, seismic design category, or other conditions not related to the critical deficiencies of the story being evaluated or retrofitted.
	Commentary: FEMA P-807 presumes that retrofit elements will be reliably ductile (as indicated by the requirement for a minimum CD value in item 3 above). Systems detailed as special should generally be deemed to comply with this requirement, but systems detailed as intermediate or ordinary may also be shown to be adequate. The final sentence of this provision allows intermediate and ordinary steel frames to be used in seismic design category D and E; see also ASCE 7-10 Sections 12.2.5.6 and 12.2.5.7.
6.	Design criteria for load path components and connections shall be appropriate to the performance objective and shall be based on the building code for new construction, appropriate provisions of other criteria allowed by SFBC Section 3406B.2, or principles of capacity design.
B7.4.1. Wood structural panel shear walls. Load-drift curves for wood structural panel retrofit elements shall be calculated in accordance with Bulletin Section B5. Existing shear walls modified by replacing sheathing materials or by adding supplemental wood structural panels shall be considered retrofit elements.
B7.4.2. Steel special moment-resisting frames. Steel retrofit elements that conform to the requirements of AISC 341-05 or AISC 341-10 for Special Moment Frames shall be deemed to comply with the provision requiring a CD value greater than or equal to 0.8. The load-drift curve may be characterized per FEMA P-807 Figure 6-7 as follows: Vy = ZFye with post-yield strengthening up to 1.2Vy at dmax, with dmax = dy + 4%.
B7.4.3. Steel intermediate moment-resisting frames. For steel retrofit elements that conform to the requirements of AISC 341-05 or AISC 341-10 for Intermediate Moment Frames, the load- drift curve may be characterized per FEMA P-807 Figure 6-7 as follows: Vy = ZFye with no post- yield strengthening, and dmax = dy + 2%.
B7.4.4. Steel ordinary moment-resisting frames. For steel retrofit elements that conform to the requirements of AISC 341-05 or AISC 341-10 for Ordinary Moment Frames, the load-drift curve may be characterized per FEMA P-807 Figure 6-7 as follows: Vy per AISC 360 Chapter F, using Fye instead of Fy, dmax = 2%.
B7.4.5. Steel special cantilever columns. For steel retrofit elements that conform to the requirements of AISC 341-10 for Special Cantilevered Column systems, the load-drift curve may be characterized per FEMA P-807 Figure 6-7 as follows: Vy = ZFye with no post-yield strengthening, and dmax = dy + 2%.
B7.4.6. Steel ordinary cantilever columns. FEMA P-807 shall not be used to demonstrate compliance of steel ordinary cantilever columns as retrofit elements.
B7.4.7. Steel buckling-restrained braced frames. Steel retrofit elements that conform to the requirements of AISC 341-05 or AISC 341-10 for buckling-restrained braced frames shall be deemed to comply with the provision requiring a CD value greater than or equal to 0.8.
	Commentary: FEMA P-807 Section 6.5.5 offers further guidance on characterizing and designing these elements.
B7.4.8. Damping systems. FEMA P-807 may be used to demonstrate compliance of hysteretic damping systems that rely on the yielding of steel components by modeling the retrofit elements as bi-linear systems similar to other structural steel systems. The Department is authorized to require third party peer review at the expense of the permit applicant.
FEMA P-807 shall not be used to demonstrate compliance of other damping systems, including viscous- or friction-damped systems.
	Commentary: Viscous- and friction-damped systems cannot be designed with FEMA P- 807 because the FEMA P-807 surrogate models did not include these mechanisms.
B7.5 Design criteria for load path elements and components. The retrofit design shall confirm or provide a load path from the second floor diaphragm through the first story seismic force-resisting elements and their foundations, to the supporting soils. The ultimate strength of load path components shall be reduced with strength reduction factors as needed to ensure that the load-path elements are able to develop the strength and the intended mechanism of first story wall and frame elements. Specific design criteria may be derived from principles of capacity design, from other criteria allowed by SFBC Section 3406B.2, or from building code provisions for new construction involving the overstrength factor, 0.
B7.5.1. Foundations and overturning. New foundation elements shall be provided as needed to resist bearing, sliding, and overturning forces associated with the retrofit elements acting at their strength. Connections and load path components related to wall or frame overturning shall not assume any acting dead load except for the self-weight of the retrofit element unless the retrofit element incorporates existing gravity load-carrying framing or unless the design and construction explicitly transfer existing dead load to the retrofit element. The weight of foundation elements may be considered if adequately connected.
B7.5.2. Second floor diaphragm. The second floor diaphragm shall be strengthened as needed to ensure that expected forces can be transferred between the diaphragm and the first-story elements.
B7.5.3. Fixed-base frame columns. Moment-resisting frame systems and cantilever column systems whose capacity assumes other than a pin-based condition shall be provided with connection details demonstrated to develop the assumed fixity and the assumed column strength. In general, an anchor-bolted base plate without substantial embedment within a foundation element is not considered to provide a fixed-base condition.
B8. Design quality assurance
B8.1. Structural calculations. Structural calculations and documentation of evaluations and retrofit designs using FEMA P-807 shall include, at minimum:
1.	Plans and/or elevations for each floor level identifying each wall line and showing the wall assembly, length, location, and openings.
2.	A schedule of wall assemblies and load drift curves for existing, altered, and new elements.
3.	A list or schedule of wall lines with overturning and opening adjustments.
4.	Derivation of characteristic coefficients.
5.	Spectral capacity calculations.
6.	Site-specific spectral demand calculations.
B8.2. Use of the FEMA P-807 Weak Story Tool
Reserved
	Part C. APPLICATION OF ASCE 41-13 TO EVALUATION AND RETROFIT DESIGN
DISCUSSION	:Further development of this section is expected as needed to address issues specific to Chapter 34B. The sections outlined below cover broad issues consistent with Chapter 34B. Otherwise, use of this standard is subject to existing Department procedures for implementation of SFBC 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, design, and methods of construction.C1. Required scope of work
No nonstructural evaluation or retrofit is required.
For typical buildings (eligibility requirements to be defined) retrofit of the first story only shall be deemed to comply with the intent of Chapter 34B.
Retrofit strength need not exceed 1.3 times the strength of the story above. Wherever the strength of two stories is being compared, an adequate load path must be assumed for all walls and partitions in the upper story.

	Commentary: This requirement prevents underestimating the upper story strength. It will apply for calculations of weak story or soft story ratio in ASCE 31/41, IEBC A4, and other code- based procedures; application of the 1.3 cap on retrofit strength for ASCE 41 and IEBC A4 retrofits; and calculation of spectral capacity with FEMA P-807.
	Part D. APPLICATION OF ASCE 41-06 TO EVALUATION AND RETROFIT DESIGN
DISCUSSION	:Further development of this section is expected as needed to address issues specific to Chapter 34B. The sections outlined below cover broad issues consistent with Chapter 34B. Otherwise, use of this standard is subject to existing Department procedures for implementation of SFBC 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, design, and methods of construction.D1. Required scope of work
No nonstructural evaluation or retrofit is required.
For typical buildings (eligibility requirements to be defined) retrofit of the first story only shall be deemed to comply with the intent of Chapter 34B.
Retrofit strength need not exceed 1.3 times the strength of the story above. Wherever the strength of two stories is being compared, an adequate load path must be assumed for all walls and partitions in the upper story.
	Commentary: This requirement prevents underestimating the upper story strength. It will apply for calculations of weak story or soft story ratio in ASCE 31/41, IEBC A4, and other code- based procedures; application of the 1.3 cap on retrofit strength for ASCE 41 and IEBC A4 retrofits; and calculation of spectral capacity with FEMA P-807.
	Part E. APPLICATION OF ASCE 31-03 TO EVALUATION
DISCUSSION	:Further development of this section is expected as needed to address issues specific to Chapter 34B. The sections outlined below cover broad issues consistent with Chapter 34B. Otherwise, use of this standard is subject to existing Department procedures for implementation of SFBC 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, design, and methods of construction.E1. Required scope of work
No nonstructural evaluation is required.
Wherever the strength of two stories is being compared, an adequate load path must be assumed for all walls and partitions in the upper story.
	Commentary: This requirement prevents underestimating the upper story strength. It will apply for calculations of weak story or soft story ratio in ASCE 31/41, IEBC A4, and other code- based procedures; application of the 1.3 cap on retrofit strength for ASCE 41 and IEBC A4 retrofits; and calculation of spectral capacity with FEMA P-807.
	Part F. APPLICATION OF 2012 IEBC APPENDIX CHAPTER A4 TO RETROFIT DESIGN
F1. Modifications and interpretations of IEBC Appendix Chapter A4. Compliance with SFBC Chapter 34B using 2012 IEBC Appendix Chapter A4 shall require compliance with that code chapter and its reference codes and standards except as otherwise modified, waived, or interpreted in this section and Bulletin Part A.
The following modifications and interpretations refer to Chapter A4 section numbers.
A401.1 Purpose
	Commentary: This provision refers to “minimum standards.” In the context of Chapter A4, this means minimum standards for policy equivalence with other criteria when retrofit is triggered elsewhere in the IEBC. In the context of SFBC Chapter 34B, the provisions of Chapter A4 might or might not require the same scope of retrofit as other criteria allowed by SFBC Section 3406B.2. The other criteria are acceptable even if they require less retrofit scope or produce retrofit designs with lower capacity than Chapter A4.
A401.2 Scope. Omit.
	Commentary: When used for compliance with SFBC Chapter 34B, the scope and applicability of Chapter A4 is established by Ordinance 66-13. The absence of any condition listed by Section A401.2 has no bearing on compliance with Chapter 34B.
A402 Definitions. Add, omit, or revise the following definitions as follows:
BUILDING CODE. The current San Francisco Building Code.
GROUND FLOOR. A target story, generally a basement story that extends above grade or the first story above grade plane. Alternately, depending on context, GROUND FLOOR might mean the floor level at the base of a target story.
TARGET STORY. Either of: A basement or underfloor space that extends above adjacent grade at any point; any story above grade plane with a wall layout or plan configuration substantially different from the wall layout or plan configuration of the story above.
	Commentary: Target Story is used to define the critical story or stories of interest instead of Chapter A4’s reliance on soft, weak, and open front wall lines. In many cases, the key target story will be the first story above grade plane. In other cases, the key target story will be a basement story that extends above grade. Some buildings might have more than one target story.
A403.1. Omit the exception and revise the first sentence as follows:
A403.1 General. All modifications required … the International Building Code building code provisions for new construction, except as modified by this chapter and applicable Administrative Bulletins.
Commentary: The exception is not necessary because Section A404 is omitted. See below.
A403.2. Omit the exception and revise the provision as follows:
A403.2 Scope of analysis. This chapter requires the alteration, repair, replacement or addition of structural elements and their connections to meet the strength and stiffness requirements herein. The lateral-load-path analysis shall include the resisting elements and connections from the wood diaphragm immediately above any soft, weak or open-front wall lines target story to the foundation soil interface or to the uppermost story of a podium structure comprised of steel, masonry, or concrete structural systems that supports the upper, woodframed structure. Stories above the uppermost target story with a soft, weak, or open-front wall line shall be considered in the analysis but need not be modified. The lateral-load-path analysis for added structural elements shall also include evaluation of the allowable soil-bearing and lateral pressures in accordance with the building code. Where any portion of a building within the scope of this chapter is constructed on or into a slope steeper than one unit vertical in three units horizontal (33-percent slope), the lateral force-resisting system at and below the base level diaphragm first story above grade plane shall be analyzed for the effects of concentrated lateral forces at the base caused by this hillside condition.
A403.3. Correct 0 to 0 in multiple places. Also, add the following sentences at the end of the section: 
A403.3 Design base shear and design parameters. … Despite any other requirement of Section A403.3 or A403.4, the total expected strength of retrofit elements added to any target story need not exceed 1.3 times the expected strength of the story immediately above, as long as the retrofit elements are located symmetrically about the center of mass of the story above or so as to minimize torsion in the target story.
	Commentary: The added sentence implements the SEAONC recommendation to cap the required strength, consistent with FEMA P-807.
Add the following subsection:
A403.3.1 Story strength. Calculation of story strength and identification of irregularities in Section A403.3 shall be based on the expected strength of all wall lines, even if sheathed with nonconforming materials. The strength of a wall line may be reduced to account for inadequate load path or overturning resistance. 
	Commentary: The expected strength of the story above may be calculated using the FEMA P-807 criteria given in Bulletin Section B5.1. The requirement to assume an adequate load path prevents underestimating the upper story strength. It will apply for calculations of weak story or soft story ratio in ASCE 31/41, IEBC A4, and other code-based procedures; application of the 1.3 cap on retrofit strength for ASCE 41 and IEBC A4 retrofits; and calculation of spectral capacity with FEMA P-807.
A403.5. Revise the subsection heading and the provision as follows:
A403.5. Deformation Compatibility and P  effects. The requirements of the building code shall apply, except as modified herein. All structural framing elements and their connections not required by design to be part of the lateral force-resisting system shall be designed and/or detailed to be adequate to maintain support of design dead plus live expected gravity loads when subjected to the expected deformations caused by seismic forces. The stress analysis of cantilever columns shall use a buckling factor of 2.1 for the direction normal to the axis of the beam. Increased demand due to P  effects and story sidesway stability shall be considered in retrofit stories that rely on the strength and stiffness of cantilever columns for lateral resistance.
	Commentary: This revision is consistent with a change approved for the 2015 IEBC.
A403.8. Revise the provision as follows:
A403.8 Horizontal diaphragms. The strength of an existing horizontal diaphragm sheathed with wood structural panels or diagonal sheathing need not be investigated unless the diaphragm is required to transfer lateral forces from vertical elements of the seismic force-resisting system above the diaphragm to elements below the diaphragm because of an offset in placement of the elements.
Wood diaphragms with stories above shall not be allowed to transmit lateral forces by rotation or cantilever except as allowed by the building code; however, r Rotational effects shall be accounted for when unsymmetric asymmetric wall stiffness increases shear demands.
Exception: Diaphragms that cantilever 25 percent or less of the distance between lines of lateral load-resisting elements from which the diaphragm cantilevers may transmit their shears by cantilever, provided that rotational effects on shear walls parallel and perpendicular to the load are taken into account.
	Commentary: This revision is consistent with a change approved for the 2015 IEBC.
A403.9.1 Revise the provision as follows:
A403.9.1 Gypsum or cement plaster products. Gypsum or cement plaster products shall not be used to provide lateral resistance in a soft or weak story or in a story with an open-front wall line, target story. whether or not new elements are added to mitigate the soft, weak or open-front condition.
A404. Omit Section A404 entirely.
	Commentary: Section A404 applies to two-story buildings only. Two-story buildings are exempt from SFBC Chapter 34B.
A405.1. Revise the provision as follows: 
A405.1 New materials. New materials shall meet the requirements of the International Building Code, building code, except where allowed by this chapter or applicable Administrative Bulletins.
A407 Quality Control. Omit Section A407 entirely.
	Commentary: Bulletin Sections A4 and A5, as well as AB 106, apply instead.
	Part G. GUIDELINES FOR ALTERNATIVE RATIONAL DESIGN BASES
DISCUSSION	:Further development of this section is expected as needed to address issues specific to Chapter 34B. The sections outlined below cover broad issues consistent with Chapter 34B. Otherwise, use of this standard is subject to existing Department procedures for implementation of SFBC 104A.2.8, Alternate materials, design, and methods of construction.
Tom C. Hui, S.E., C.B.O.			Date
Director
Department of Building Inspection
Approved by Building Inspection Commission on November 20, 2013 

ELECTRICAL CODE
2013 Edition
The San Francisco Electrical Code is current through Ordinances approved through December 31, 2013.



Copyright © 2014
by
THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
A Municipal Corporation

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed by any means or stored in a database or retrieval system without prior written permission of the City and County of San Francisco.
PUPLISHER'S NOTE
	The full 2013 San Francisco Electrical Code consists of the 2011 National Electrical Code, as amended by the 2013 California Electrical Code, and as further amended by these San Francisco amendments.
	The San Francisco Electrical Code amendments contained herein are designed to be used in conjunction with the 2013 California Electrical Code.
	The San Francisco Electrical Code amendments contained herein were adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco on November 5, 2013, by Ordinance 256-13, effective January 1, 2014.

2013 California Electrical Code
(Which incorporates the 2011 National Electrical Code)}+Complete
San Francisco
Electrical Code2013 San Francisco Amendments
Supplements to this Code and complete copies of all six
Building Inspection Commission (BIC) Codes
(Building, Electrical, Green Building, Housing, Mechanical, and Plumbing)
can be ordered from:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
432 Walnut Street, Suite 1200
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202-3909
(800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
Text Format:
	The text in this publication is formatted to allow the user to quickly and easily determine the source of the included material. Language derived from the 2013 California Code that is unchanged by local amendment is printed in shaded text (see below). Language constituting San Francisco amendments to the California Code is printed in unformatted (or "plain") text. In either case, bold and/or italic typefaces may be used as appropriate for emphasis, etc. See below for examples. 
	To further simplify use of the San Francisco amendments with corresponding sections of the 2013 California Code, explanatory remarks appearing in italics are provided (in boxes at the beginning of affected provisions) indicating whether the San Francisco amendment to the California Code is adding, revising, or replacing a section or portion of a section.
	To summarize:
Explanatory remarks are boxed and italicized.
	Unchanged language from the 2013 California Code is shaded, and may include bold and/or italicized formatting.
	San Francisco amendments are printed in unformatted (“plain”) text, and may include bold and/or italicized formatting.
Historical Notations:
	Language which has been added, amended, or deleted from the 2013 publication of the San Francisco Electrical Code is indicated with an historical notation, setting forth the ordinance number and date of adoption.

Article 89
GENERAL CODE PROVISIONS
89.101.1  Replace the first sentence of this section with the following:
89.101.1  Title. 
[ß]The provisions contained in this Code shall be known as the 2010 San Francisco Electrical Code, and may be cited as such and will be referred to as "this code." . . . 
89.115  Add the following new section:
89.115  Suppression. 
This code shall supersede all previous Electrical Codes and ordinances in the City and County of San Francisco. Nothing herein shall require the revision of electrical installation plans submitted prior to the adoption date of this code. Electrical permits obtained prior to the effective date of this code shall comply with the provisions of the Electrical Code, ordinances, regulations and rulings in effect when the permit was granted.
89.116  Add the following new section:
89.116  Maintenance. 
All electrical equipment, wiring and systems and installations shall be maintained in a safe operating and code-complying condition. The owner or the owner's designated agent, or both, shall be legally responsible for the maintenance of all electrical wiring systems and installations. 
	Nothing contained in this code shall be construed to require any existing electrical equipment, wiring or systems regulated by this code to be altered, reconstructed, removed or demolished, providing such existing electrical equipment, wiring or system was installed and maintained in accordance with the adopted code in effect at the time of installation or subsequent alteration. 
	Unused conductors and cables shall be either removed or suitably identified and terminated in an approved manner.
89.117  Add the following new section:
89.117  Alternate Materials, Design and Methods of Construction.
	(A)	Alternates Require Approval. The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the use of a product or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided any such alternate has been approved and the use authorized by the Building Official. 
	(B)	Equivalency of Alternates. The Building Official may authorize an alternate, provided the Building Official finds the proposed design is satisfactory for the intended use and complies with the provisions of this code and that the product, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least equivalent to that prescribed by this code in suitability, strength, effectiveness, fire resistivity, durability and safety. 
	(C)	Evidence Required. The Building Official shall require sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claims made regarding the use of alternates. The details of any action granting approval of an alternate shall be recorded and shall be entered in the files of the Department of Building Inspection. 
	(D)	Conditions and Fees. See Building Code Section 104A.2.8 for conditions and Section 110A, Table IA-J – Miscellaneous Fees – for applicable fees. 
89.118  Add the following new section:
89.118  Change in Occupancy. 
Electrical equipment, wiring and systems which are part of any building or structure, or portion thereof, undergoing a change in occupancy or use, as defined in the Building Code, shall comply with all requirements of this code which may be applicable to the new occupancy or use. 
	Exception: The provisions of this section shall not require the change of existing electrical equipment, wiring and systems where such electrical equipment, wiring and systems are deemed adequate for the new occupancy involved.
89.119  Add the following new section:
89.119  Modifications. 
When there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the Building Official may grant modifications for individual cases. The Building Official shall first find that a special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical and that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen health, life-safety and fire-safety requirements. The details of any action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the Department of Building Inspection.
89.120  Add the following new section:
89.120  Permits Required. 
	(A)	General. It shall be unlawful for any person to install, construct, alter, move, add to or replace any electrical installation regulated by this code, except as permitted in Section 89.121, without first obtaining a permit from the Department of Building Inspection. 
	(B)	Nonliability of City and County of San Francisco. Permits issued under the provisions of this code shall contain or be construed to contain an agreement by the owner of the building, structure or premises, or the owner's authorized agent, to save City and County of San Francisco officials and employees harmless from all costs, liability and damages resulting, whether directly or indirectly, from anything in connection with the work included in the permit, including equipment, methods of construction, inspections and approvals. 
	(C)	Application For Permit. Permit applicants shall file with the Department of Building Inspection an application form furnished for that purpose. The permit application shall show a complete itemization of the proposed electrical installation and the correct address of the job site. Electrical permits may be issued to duly licensed contractors who have registered with the Central Permit Bureau by having their state contractor's license verified by the Department of Building Inspection, or issued to a homeowner subject to Section 89.120(E). A separate permit shall be obtained for each separate building or structure.
	See Section 110A, Table 1A-E – Electrical Permit Fees – of the Building Code for the applicable fees. 
	(D)	Illegal Use of Permit. No person, firm, corporation, or state licensed contractor shall file an application for a permit to install any electrical wiring system unless such person, firm, corporation, or state licensed contractor shall perform such work. The Building Official or the Building Official's authorized representative shall have the authority to cancel any permit upon finding that it is contrary to this section. The permittee shall be responsible for all work performed. 
	(E)	Homeowner's Permit. A permit for electrical work in or about a single-family dwelling may be issued by the Building Official to a homeowner, provided the work to be done will be performed by the homeowner. If the electrical work performed under the homeowner's permit does not comply with the requirements of this code and if the corrections are not made as required by the Department of Building Inspection, then the deficiencies shall be corrected by a State licensed electrical contractor under a separate permit.
	(F)	Emergency Work. Emergency electrical work for the protection of persons or property shall have a permit obtained within one business day of commencing such work.
89.121  Add the following new section:
89.121  Work Exempt from Permits. 
Electrical permits and fees shall not be required for the following: 
	(A)	Repair or replacement of luminaires where: 
		(1)	the luminaire(s) are not installed to provide emergency illumination required by San Francisco Building Code, and 
		(2)	no change in existing wiring is involved, and 
		(3)	luminaires weigh 22.68 Kg (50 pounds) or less. 
	(B)	Repair or replacement of a domestic appliance where no change in existing wiring is involved. 
	(C)	Replacement of fuses, controls, motors of less than 2 horsepower, and switches and receptacles of not more than 20 amperes rating, where no change in existing wiring is involved. 
	(D)	Replacement of circuit breakers, externally operated switches and fuse holders of the same type and rating as the defective unit or component, if not rated in excess of 100 amperes. Exception: Replacement of main service disconnecting means are subject to permit and inspection regardless of rating. 
	(E)	Wiring for temporary theater stages and platforms, motion picture and television studio sets supplied from approved electrical outlets installed for the purpose. 
	(F)	Replacement of component parts for electric signs or gas-tube lighting systems of the same size and rating. 
	(G)	Installation of up to 10 data/communications cable and/or outlets that do not monitor or control electrical utilization equipment and/or life safety functions. 
	(H)	Installation of data/communications cable and/or outlets in R-3 occupancies and within individual residential units, provided they do not monitor or control electrical utilization equipment and/or life safety functions.
89.122  Permit Issuance. 
	(A)	General. An issued permit entitles the permittee to proceed with the installation described therein. Work done in excess of that shown on the application will be subject to extra permit fees as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-F – Specialty Permit Fees – of the Building Code. The issuance of a permit does not constitute an approval or an authorization of the work specified therein. Neither the issuance of a permit, nor the approval by the Building Official of any document, shall constitute an approval of a violation of any provision of this code or any law or ordinance. A permit or other document purporting to give authority to violate any code, law or ordinance shall not be valid with respect thereto. Permits shall not be transferable. Proposed electrical installations delineated on a permit application shall be performed only by the permittee or bona fide employee thereof in accordance with the California Code of Regulations, Title 8, Chapter 2, Part IV. The permit shall be posted on the job site where the work is to be done. 
	(B)	Permit Expiration. Electrical permits expire per Section 106A.4.4 of the San Francisco Building Code. Permit fees may be partially refunded if cancellation request is made to the Building Official prior to commencement of the permitted work and within 90 days of the date of permit issuance. See Section 110A, Table 1A-R – Refunds – of the Building Code for refund. 
	(C)	Commencement of Work on Permit Expired Due to Work Not Started. Before work may be commenced on an expired permit on which no work was performed, a new permit shall be obtained. 
	(D)	Recommencement of Work on Permit Expired Due to Work Not Completed. The applicant shall secure a new permit for the work not completed. The permit fee shall be based upon items or work remaining to be done. 
	(E)	Cancellation of Permit. Permits may be canceled by the Building Official: 
		(1)	If after inspection, it is judged by a senior inspector that the permit holder is unable or unwilling to correct an unsafe condition or Code violations. 
		(2)	If the permit was obtained fraudulently or under false pretenses. 
89.123  Add the following new section:
89.123  Fees.
	(A)	General. Permit and inspection fees, as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-E – Electrical Permit Fees – of the Building Code, shall be paid prior to permit issuance. When additional permit or inspection fees are due, they shall be payable prior to issuance of Permission to Connect Current, Certificate of Occupancy, or Declaration of Inspection. 
	(B)	Other Fees. A standard hourly inspection fee shall be charged for services provided by Electrical Inspection Division personnel which are not otherwise detailed. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – of the Building Code. 
	(C)	Work Without Permit – Investigation Fee. If the Building Official finds that a person, company or entity has performed electrical installation work for which a permit is required, without first obtaining an electrical permit and payment of fees, the Building Official shall require the payment of an investigative fee in addition to the prescribed permit fee. See Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – of the Building Code for the applicable fees. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all other provisions of this Code, nor from any penalty prescribed by law. The Building Official may reduce the investigation fee to two times the amount of the permit fee as called for in Section 110A, Table 1A-E – Electrical Permit Fees – of the Building Code for work that was constructed prior to the current building ownership if the owner files with the Building Official notarized affidavit together with documents substantiating such dates of work. 
	Appeal of such investigative fee may be filed with the Board of Appeals in the manner provided in Part III of the San Francisco Municipal Code. Such filing shall be subject to the fees and rules of the Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals, in reviewing the appeal may reduce the appealed amount to not less than two times (2×) the permit fee as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-E – Electrical Permit Fees – of the Building Code. 
89.124  Add the following new section:
89.124  Powers and Duties of the Building Official. 
	(A)	General. The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of this code. For such purposes, the Building Official shall have the powers of a law enforcement officer. The Building Official, when necessary, may call upon the Police Department and other city agencies for aid or assistance in carrying out or enforcing any of the provisions of this code. 
	(B)	Right of Entry. When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code or other codes or ordinances, or when the Building Official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building or upon a premises a condition that is contrary to, or in violation of, this code or other codes or ordinances that makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Building Official may enter the building or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this code or other codes or ordinances, provided that if such building or premises be occupied, credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested. If such building or premises be unoccupied, the Building Official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Building Official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry. 
	(C)	Stop Orders. Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, or other pertinent laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code, the Building Official may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Building Official to proceed with the work. 
	(D)	Temporary Use of Electrical Energy. The Building Official may permit the temporary use of electrical energy by any person, firm or corporation in cases where it does not create a hazard to life or property. 
	(E)	Building Official May Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Building Official shall have the power to render interpretations of this code and to adopt and enforce rules and supplemental regulations to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformance with the intent and purpose of this code. Such rules and regulations, commonly referred to as Code Rulings and Administrative Bulletins, supplemental to this code, shall not take effect until approved by the Building Inspection Commission and signed by the Building Official except in unusual circumstances where the Building Official has determined there is an immediate need to protect the public health and safety. When the Building Official finds that such circumstances exist, the Building Official may order immediate enforcement of a particular rule or regulation. The Building Official shall arrange for a subscription service to such rules and regulations, the entire cost of which is to be borne by the subscribers. 
	(F)	Code Revisions. The Building Official shall transmit to the Building Inspection Commission, at intervals not exceeding three years, recommendations for changes to this code, based on studies of the following:
		(1)	Requests of the Board of Examiners for variances from this code, and for approvals of alternate materials, alternate designs and methods of construction. 
		(2)	Code changes recommended by the Board of Examiners. 
		(3)	Code changes recommended by the Code Advisory Committee or other bodies subordinate to the Building Inspection Commission.
		(4)	Results obtained and problems encountered from legal actions taken to correct code violations. 
		(5)	Changes or improvements in materials, methods of construction or design, and changes proposed by interested persons. 
		(6)	Investigations of fire and structural damage buildings, and of complaints of unsatisfactory electrical system performance.
		(7)	Periodic changes to the California Electrical Code and other State regulations which may affect this code. 
		(8)	Administrative Bulletins and Code Rulings currently in effect.
		(9)	Violations of this code found on inspections and investigations. 
	(G)	Disconnection of Electric Service Due to Serious and Imminent Hazards. The building Official shall have the authority to disconnect electric service to a building, structure, property or equipment regulated by this code when it is necessary to abate a serious and imminent hazard to the life, health or safety of the occupant or other persons, or such building, structure or property. See Section 102A of the Building Code. Persons shall not reconnect such electrical supply until authorized in writing by the Building Official. 
89.125  Add the following new section: 
89.125  Violation. 
Any person, the owner or the owner's authorized agent, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or resists or opposes the execution of any of the provisions of this code, shall be liable for a civil penalty, not to exceed $500 for each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, which penalty shall be assessed and recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the people of the City and County of San Francisco by the City Attorney in any court of competent jurisdiction. Any penalty assessed and recovered in an action brought pursuant to this paragraph shall be paid to the City Treasurer and credited to the Department of Building Inspection's Special Fund. 
	Any person, the owner or the owner's authorized agent, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists or opposes the execution of any of the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, or by imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, unless otherwise provided in this code, and shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day such violation, disobedience, omission, neglect or refusal shall continue. Any person who shall do any work in violation of any of the provisions of this code, and any person having charge of such work who shall permit it to be done, shall be liable for the penalty provided. 
	It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the posting of any notice provided for in this code, or to tear down or mutilate any such notice so posted by the Department of Building Inspection
89.126  Add the following new section:
89.126  Unsafe Buildings or Structures. 
Any buildings, structures, or parts thereof, shall be considered unsafe when any of the following conditions are present: 
	(A)	Electrical equipment, wiring and systems deemed hazardous to human life or structure safety; 
	(B)	Electrical equipment, wiring and systems that are in violation of the code that was in effect at the time of construction or installation or such work was performed without permit or approval; 
	(C)	Change in occupancy without complying with the provision of Section 89.118 of this code. 
Such unsafe building, structure, property or portion shall be vacated, repaired, altered or demolished in accordance with Section 102A of the Building Code. 
89.127  Add the following new section:
89.127  Inspection. 
	(A)	General. All electrical equipment, wiring and systems, regulated by this code and for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection to insure compliance with this code. Upon the completion and final approval of the permitted installation and payment of all permit and inspection fees, a Declaration of Inspection shall be issued. Said declaration shall indicate in concise terms the electrical installation thus approved and the date of approval. 
	(B)	Unlawful Use of Electrical Energy. It shall be unlawful to energize an electrical installation in, on or about any building, structure or property in the City and County of San Francisco unless a Certificate to Connect Current (Green Tag) has been issued. The Certificate to Connect Current authorizes the owner of the structure to energize the permitted installation.
	(C)	Inspection Requests. It shall be the responsibility of the permit holder to notify the Electrical Inspection Division orally or in writing when the permitted installation will be ready for inspection. Such notification shall be given at least 24 hours before any inspection is desired. Inspections may be performed outside of normal inspection hours by prior arrangement and prepayment. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Off-hours Inspections – of the Building Code for the applicable fees. 
	(D)	Required Inspections. Required inspections shall include:
		(1)	Pre-Cover Inspection. Electrical equipment, wiring and systems authorized by permit shall be inspected for code compliance prior to covering or concealing. 
		(2) Final Inspection. Final inspection and demonstration of satisfactory operation shall be made after the installation authorized by permit has been completed. 
		(3)	Other Inspection. As may be required to insure compliance with the provisions of this code.
	(E)	Electrical Wiring or Installation Unlawful to Conceal. It shall be unlawful to conceal, cover, or put into use electrical wiring, installations, or parts thereof, until such has been inspected and accepted as prescribed in this code. Whenever such work is concealed or covered before first having been inspected and approved, or whenever electrical wiring or systems are installed and concealed or covered without a permit, the Building Official may require, by written notice to the responsible person(s) that such wiring or installation be exposed for inspection. The work of exposing and reconstructing portions of a structure for such work shall not entail expense to the City and County of San Francisco or any of its officials or employees. 
	(F)	Reinspections. Reinspections shall be required when any of the following conditions occurs: 
		(1)	When the portion of the work for which inspection is requested is incomplete or not code complying. 
		(2)	When previously identified deficiencies in the work are not properly corrected. 
		(3)	When the approved construction documents are not available to the inspector. 
		(4)	When access is not provided on the date and time of the inspection appointment. 
		(5)	When there are deviations from the approved construction documents. 
The first reinspection for failure to comply with code requirements shall not be assessed a re-inspection fee. All subsequent reinspections on a job for the same or subsequent errors or omissions shall be charged with a reinspection fee. A Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy or final approval shall not be granted until the required fees are paid. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – of the Building Code for applicable reinspection fees. 
89.128  Add the following new section:
89.128  Survey. 
An electrical survey may be requested when an electrical inspector's assistance is desired to establish code compliance of existing or proposed electrical equipment, wiring and installations. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G of the Building Code for applicable fees.
89.129  Add the following new section:
89.129  Board of Examiners. 
Application may be made to the Board of Examiners for approval of alternate materials, methods and types of construction and for variances from the provisions of this code. See Building Code, Section 105A.1.
ARTICLE 90 – INTRODUCTION
	No San Francisco Electrical Code Amendments.
Chapter 1.
General

ARTICLE 110 – REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
110.15  Revise this section as follows:
110.15  High-Leg Marking. 
On a 4-wire, delta-connected system where the midpoint of one phase winding is grounded, only the conductor or busbar having the higher phase voltage to ground shall be durably and permanently marked by an outer finish that is purple [ß] in color or by other effective means. Such identification shall be placed at each point on the system where a connection is made if the grounded conductor is also present. Identification of ungrounded feeder conductors shall comply with Section 210-5(C).
110.26  Spaces About Electrical Equipment. 
. . .
	(A)	Working Space. . . . 
110.26(A)(3)  Revise this section as follows:
		(3)	Height of Working Space. The work space shall be clear and extend from the grade, floor, or platform to a height of 2.0 m (6½ ft) or the height of the equipment, whichever is greater. Within the height requirements of this section, other equipment that is associated with the electrical installation and is located above or below the electrical equipment shall be permitted to extend not more than 150 mm (6 in.) beyond the front of the electrical equipment. 
Exception No. 1:  [ß][Editor's Note: Exception No. 1 is deleted by local amendment.]
Exception No. 2:  Meters that are installed in meter sockets shall be allowed to extend beyond the other equipment. The meter socket shall be required to follow the rules of this section. 
110.26(B)  Revise this section as follows:
	(B)	Clear Spaces. Working space required by this section shall not be used for storage. When normally enclosed live parts are exposed for inspection or servicing, the working space, if in a passageway or general open space, shall be suitably guarded. The standing area of the workspace shall not contain obstructions, abrupt changes in grade, or irregularities.
Chapter 2.
Wiring and Protection
ARTICLE 210 – BRANCH CIRCUITS
210.5  Identification for Branch Circuits.
 . . .
	(C)	Identification of Ungrounded Conductors.
210.5(C )(1)  Revise this section as follows:
		(1)	 Application. [ß] Each ungrounded conductor of a branch circuit shall be identified by phase or line and system at all termination, connection, and splice points.
210.5(C)(2)  Revise this section as follows:
		(2)	Means of Identification. The means of identification for conductors #8 AWG or larger shall be permitted to be by separate color coding, marking tape, tagging, or other approved means. Conductors of any size in cable assemblies may be suitably identified at all termination, connection and splice points. Conductor insulation in raceways shall contain continuous color pigment for circuit wire sizes # 10 AWG and smaller. 
Phase identification colors shall be: 
(1)	120/240 volt single phase systems "A" phase black, "B" phase red; 120/208 volt 4-wire 3-phase wye systems – "A" phase black, "B" phase red, "C" phase blue; 120/240 volt 3-phase delta systems – "A" phase black, "B" (high leg) phase purple, "C" phase red; 277/480 volt 4-wire 3-phase wye systems – "A" phase brown, "B" phase orange, "C" phase yellow. Ungrounded conductors for other voltages shall be identified by different color coding, marking tape, tagging, or other approved means. 
(2)	Conductors for switch legs may be of a different color than the ungrounded circuit conductor when suitably identified at pull, junction and outlet boxes with marking tape, tagging or other equally effective means. 
Exception No 1: Extensions of existing non-color coded wiring systems need not be color coded. 
Exception No 2: In multi-family dwelling unit buildings supplied by 3 phase 120/208 volt systems, within dwelling units supplied by 120/208 volt single phase systems, ungrounded conductor phase or line identification shall be permitted to be A phase Black, B phase Red. 
Informational Note: See Section 200.7 for limitations on re-identification of white or grey conductors, and 250.119 for prohibition on using green for ungrounded conductors.
ARTICLE 215 – FEEDERS
215.12  Identification for Feeders.
215.12(C)  Revise this section as follows: 
	(C)	Ungrounded Conductors. Each [ß] ungrounded conductor of a feeder shall be identified by phase or line and system at all termination, connection and splice points. The means of identification shall be permitted to be by separate color coding, marking tape, tagging, or other approved means. The method utilized for conductors originating within each feeder panelboard or similar feeder distribution equipment shall be documented in a manner that is readily available or shall be permanently posted at each feeder panelboard or similar feeder distribution equipment.
ARTICLE 230 – SERVICES	
230.43  Revise this section as follows: 
230.43  Wiring Methods for 600 Volts, Nominal, or Less. 
	(A)	General. [ß]Service-entrance conductors shall be installed in accordance with the applicable requirements of this Code covering the type of wiring method used and shall be limited to the following methods: 
		(1)	Reserved; [ß]
		(2)	Reserved; [ß]
		(3)	Rigid metal conduit;
		(4)	Intermediate metal conduit;
		(5)	Reserved; [ß]
		(6)	Reserved; [ß]
		(7)	Reserved; [ß]
		(8)	Reserved; [ß]
		(9)	Busways;
		(10)	Auxiliary gutters;
		(11)	Rigid polyvinyl chloride conduit (PVC);
		(12)	Reserved; [ß]
		(13)	Reserved; [ß]
		(14)	Mineral-insulated, metal sheathed cable;
		(15)	Reserved; [ß]
		(16)	Reserved; [ß]
		(17)	High Density Polyethylene Conduit (HDPE);
		(18)	Non-metallic Underground Conduit with Conductors (NUCC);
		(19)	Reinforced Thermosetting Resin Conduit (RTRC).
	(B)	Raceway Size. Minimum raceway size shall comply with the following: 
		(1)	Except as provided in Section 230.43(B)(2) and (3) the minimum size raceway installed for service entrance conductor shall be 1¼ inch (31.8 mm). 
		(2)	Raceways for service entrance conductors for sign or billboard lighting shall not be smaller than ¾ inch (19.1 mm) conduit. 
		(3)	Installations consisting of not more than two 2-wire branch circuits may be supplied by No. 8 conductors in ¾ inch (19.1 mm) conduit. 
Exception: New service entrance conductors may be repulled in previously approved service raceways, provided the installation complies with the requirements of SFEC Section 89.116 and Chapters 1, 2 and 3. 
Informational Note: Refer to electric utility service requirements for raceway sizes.
230.56  Revise this section as follows:
230.56  Service Conductor with the Higher Voltage to Ground. 
On a four-wire delta-connected service where the midpoint of one phase winding is grounded, the service conductor having the higher phase voltage to ground shall be durably and permanently marked by an outer finish that is purple [ß] in color, or by other effective means, at each termination or junction point.
230.71(A)  Revise this section and add an exception as follows:
230.71  Maximum Number of Disconnects. 
	(A)	General. The service disconnecting means for each service permitted by 230.2, or for each set of service-entrance conductors permitted by 230.40, Exception Nos. 1, 3, 4, or 5, shall consist of a single circuit breaker or switch and set of fuses. [ß] For the purpose of this section, disconnecting means installed as part of listed equipment and used solely for the following shall not be considered a service disconnecting means:
		(1)	Power monitoring equipment
		(2)	Surge-protective device(s)
		(3)	Control circuit of the ground-fault protection system
		(4)	Power-operable service disconnecting means. 
	Exception: In buildings with only residential occupancies not more than six switches or sets of circuit-breakers, or a combination of not more than six switches and sets of circuit breakers, mounted in a single enclosure, in a group of separate enclosures, or in or on a switchboard shall be allowed. There shall be not more than six sets of disconnects per service grouped in any one location. A single circuit breaker or set of fuses shall be provided for each dwelling unit.
ARTICLE 250 – GROUNDING AND BONDING
250.50  Revise the first paragraph of this section as follows:
250.50  Grounding Electrode System.
All grounding electrodes as described in 250.52(A)(1) through (A)(7) that are present at each building or structure served shall be bonded together to form the grounding electrode system. A concrete encased electrode as defined by Section 250.52(A)(3) shall be installed at each new building or structure, and for existing buildings or structures when a new or replacement foundation or footing with a perimeter length of 6.0 m (20 ft) or more is installed in direct contact with the earth. Where none of these electrodes exist, one or more of the grounding electrodes specified in 250.52(A)(4) through (A)(8) shall be installed and used.

Exception: Concrete-encased electrodes of existing buildings or structures shall not be required to be part of the grounding electrode system where the steel reinforcing bars or rods are not accessible for use without disturbing the concrete.
	. . . 
250.64  Grounding Electrode Condusctor Installation.
250.64(A)  Revise this section as follows:
	(A)	Aluminum or Copper-Clad Aluminum Conductors. Bare aluminum or copper-clad aluminum grounding conductors shall not be used where in direct contact with masonry or the earth or where subject to corrosive conditions. Aluminum or copper-clad aluminum grounding conductors shall not be [ß]installed on the outside of a building or structure.
250.64(B)  Revise this section as follows:
	(B)	Securing and Protection Against Physical Damage. Where exposed, a grounding electrode conductor or its enclosure shall be securely fastened to the surface on which it is carried. Grounding electrode conductors shall be permitted to be installed on or through framing members. A 4 AWG or larger copper or aluminum grounding electrode conductor shall be protected if exposed to physical damage. A 6 AWG grounding electrode conductor that is free from exposure to physical damage shall be permitted to be run along the surface of the building construction without metal covering or protection if it is securely fastened to the construction; otherwise, it shall be protected in rigid metal conduit (RMC), intermediate metal conduit (IMC), rigid polyvinyl chloride conduit (PVC), reinforced thermosetting resin conduit (RTRC), electrical metallic tubing (EMT), or cable armor. Grounding electrode conductors smaller than 6 AWG shall be protected in RMC, IMC, PVC, RTRC, EMT or cable armor. Exposed grounding electrode conductors that are accessible to the general public shall be installed in approved metallic raceway. 6 AWG or smaller grounding electrode conductors shall not be installed exposed below 5 feet.
Chapter 3.
Wiring Methods and Materials
ARTICLE 300 – WIRING METHODS
300.3  Conductors.
 . . .
	(C)	Conductors of Different Systems.
300.3(C)(1)  Revise this section as follows:
		(1)	600 Volts, Nominal or Less. Conductors of ac and dc circuits, rated [ß] from separately derived systems, from separate services, or from separate utility meters shall not be permitted to occupy the same equipment wiring enclosure, cable or raceway with conductors from other systems, services, or meters. All conductors shall have an insulation rating equal to at least the maximum circuit voltage applied to any conductor within the enclosure, cable, or raceway. 
Informational Note No. 1: See 725.136(A) for Class 2 and 3 circuit conductors 
Informational Note No. 2: See 690.4(B) for photovoltaic source and output circuits 
Exception No 1:	For solar photovoltaic systems in accordance with Section 690.4(B) 
Exception No. 2:	Conductors installed in accordance with Section 700.9. 
Exception No. 3:	Class 1, 2 or 3 conductors installed in accordance with Article 725. 
Exception No 4:	Conductors in auxiliary gutters connected to the separately derived systems, service equipment, or meter bank.
300.4  Protection Against Physical Damage.
300.4(I)  Add this section as follows:
	(I)	Subject to Physical Damage. Premises wiring systems installed less than 2.44 m (8 feet) above a walking surface or finished floor are considered subject to physical damage.
ARTICLE 320 – ARMORED CABLE: TYPE AC
320.108  Revise this section as follows:
320.108  Equipment Grounding Conductor. Type AC cable shall provide an adequate path for fault current as required by 250.4(A)(5) or (B)(4) to act as an equipment grounding conductor. An equipment grounding conductor, sized as required by Table 250.122, shall be provided within the cable assembly.
ARTICLE 330 – METAL-CLAD CABLE: TYPE MC
330.40  Revise this section as follows:
330.40  Boxes and Fitting. 
Fittings used for connecting Type MC cable to boxes, cabinets, or other equipment shall be listed and identified for such use. An approved insulating bushing shall be installed between the conductors and the sheath of MC Cable where the manufacturer recommends their use.
330.108  Revise this section as follows:
330.108  Equipment Grounding Conductor. 
Where Type MC cable is used to provide an equipment grounding conductor, it shall comply with 250.118(10) and 250.122. An equipment grounding conductor, sized as required by Table 250.122, shall be provided within the cable assembly.
ARTICLE 334 – NONMETALLIC-SHEATHED CABLE: TYPES NM, NMC, AND NMS
334.10  Uses permitted.
334.10  Revise Item (2) as follows:
	(2)	Multi-family dwellings permitted to be of Types III, IV, and V construction not exceeding 6 stories as defined by the San Francisco Building Code except as prohibited in 334.12.
334.12  Uses Not Permitted.
334.12  Add Item (11) as follows:
	(11)	In any nonresidential structure or occupancy.
ARTICLE 340 – UNDERGROUND FEEDER AND BRANCH-CIRCUIT CABLE: TYPE UF
340.10  Uses Permitted.
340.10  Revise Item (1) as follows:
	(1)	For use underground in systems not exceeding 50 volts, including direct burial in the earth. For underground requirements see 300.5.
ARTICLE 348 – FLEXIBLE METAL CONDUIT: TYPE FMC
348.10  Revise this section as follows:
348.10  Uses Permitted. 
FMC shall be permitted to be used in concealed locations and where necessary for flexibility in lengths not to exceed 1.829 m (6 feet).
ARTICLE 350 – LIQUIDTIGHT FLEXIBLE METAL CONDUIT: TYPE LFMC
350.10  Revise the first sentence as follows:
350.10  Uses Permitted. 
LFMC shall be permitted to be used exposed [ß] where necessary for flexibility in lengths not to exceed 1.829 m (6 feet) locations or concealed locations as follows: . . .
ARTICLE 352 – RIGID POLYVINYL CHLORIDE CONDUIT: TYPE PVC
352.10  Uses Permitted.
352.10  Revise Item (A) as follows:
	(A)	Concealed. PVC conduit shall be permitted embedded in concrete walls, floors, and ceilings. The conduit may emerge not more than 3 inches from the concrete within wiring enclosures, otherwise metal raceways shall be provided where emerging from the concrete.
ARTICLE 355 – REINFORCED THERMOSETTING RESIN CONDUIT: TYPE RTRC
355.10  Uses Permitted.
355.10  Revise Item (A) as follows:
	(A)	Concealed. RTRC conduit shall be permitted embedded in concrete walls, floors, and ceilings. The conduit may emerge not more than 3 inches from the concrete within wiring enclosures, otherwise metal raceways shall be provided where emerging from the concrete.
ARTICLE 356 – LIQUIDTIGHT FLEXIBLE NONMETALLIC CONDUIT: TYPE LFNC
356.10  Revise the first sentence of this section as follows:
356.10  Uses Permitted. 
LFNC shall be permitted to be used in exposed or concealed locations for systems not exceeding 50 volts for the following purposes: . . .
356.12  Uses Not Permitted.
356.12  Revise item 4 of this section as follows:
	(4)	Where the operating voltage of the contained conductors is in excess of 50 [ß] volts, nominal, except as permitted in 600.32(A).
ARTICLE 358 – ELECTRICAL METALLIC TUBING: TYPE EMT
358.10  Uses Permitted.
358.10(B)  Add a second paragraph as follows:
	(B)	Corrosion Protection. . . . 
	Where EMT emerges from concrete in a damp or wet location, it shall be protected against corrosion at the point of emergence by wrapping of PVC tape, or by other approved means.
358.12  Uses Not Permitted.
358.12  Add Item (7) as follows: 
	(7)	In concrete slabs on grade.
ARTICLE 362 – ELECTRICAL NONMETALLIC TUBING: TYPE ENT
362.10  Uses Permitted.
362.10  Revise Item 6 and delete Items 1,2,4,5,7, and 8 as follows:
	(1)	Reserved. [ß]
	(2)	Reserved. [ß]
	. . .
	(4)	Reserved. [ß]
	(5)	Reserved. [ß]
	(6)	Encased in poured concrete, or embedded in a concrete slab on grade where ENT is placed on sand or approved screenings, provided fittings identified for this purpose are used for connections. Metal raceways shall be provided where emerging from the concrete.
	(7)	Reserved. [ß]
	(8)	Reserved. [ß]
ARTICLE 378 – NONMETALLIC WIREWAYS
378.12  Uses Not Permitted. 
378.12  Add Item (6) as follows: 
	(6)	Where the voltage of the contained conductors is in excess of 50 volts.
Chapter 4.
Equipment for General Use
ARTICLE 410 – LUMINAIRES (LIGHTING FIXTURES), LAMPHOLDERS, AND LAMPS
410.36(B)  Revise this section as follows:
410.36  Means of Support.
	(B)	Suspended Ceilings. Framing members of suspended ceiling systems used to support luminaires shall be securely fastened to each other and shall be securely attached to the building structure at appropriate intervals. Luminaires shall be securely fastened to the ceiling framing member by mechanical means, such as bolts, screws, or rivets. Listed clips identified for use with the type of ceiling framing member(s) and luminaire(s) shall also be permitted. All luminaires or luminaire outlets supported by suspended ceiling systems shall have supplemental support wires (minimum #12 gauge) connected from the fixture housing or fixture support bracket to the structure above. Recessed lighting fixtures measuring 610 mm (2 feet) nominal or larger in any dimension shall have two (minimum #12 gauge) support wires. See IBC Section 808.1.1.1 and ASTM standards C635 and C636.
Exception: Supplemental support wires shall not be required when listed clips identified to be used without supplemental ceiling wires in compliance with IBC Section 808.1.1.1 are installed.
ARTICLE 411 – LIGHTING SYSTEMS OPERATING AT 30 VOLTS OR LESS
411.4  Revise Section Title and Item (A) as follows: 
411.4  Locations not Permitted. [ß]
	(A)	Walls, Floors, and Ceilings. Conductors concealed or extended through a wall, floor ceiling, or suspended ceiling, shall be in accordance with (1) or (2):
		(1)	Installed using any of the wiring methods specified in Chapter 3
		(2)	Installed using wiring supplied by a listed Class 2 power source and installed in accordance with 725.130

Chapter 5.
Special Occupancies
No San Francisco Electrical Code Amendments.
Chapter 6.
Special Equipment
ARTICLE 645 – INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT
645.5(E)  Revise Item (2) as follows:
645.5  Supply Circuits and Interconnecting Cables.
	(E)	Under Raised Floors.
		(2)	The branch-circuit supply conductors to receptacles or field-wired equipment are in rigid metal conduit, [ß] intermediate metal conduit, electrical metallic tubing, [ß] metal wireway, nonmetallic wireway, surface metal raceway with metal cover, nonmetallic surface raceway, flexible metal conduit, liquidtight flexible metal conduit, or liquidtight flexible nonmetallic conduit, Type MI cable, Type MC cable, or Type AC cable and associated metallic and nonmetallic boxes or enclosures. These supply conductors shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of Section 300.11.
Chapter 7.
Special Conditions
ARTICLE 700 – EMERGENCY SYSTEMS
700.12  General Requirements.
700.12(F)  Revise the last paragraph of this section as follows: 
	(F)	Unit Equipment. . . . 
	Unit equipment shall be permanently fixed in place (i.e., not portable) and shall have all wiring to each unit installed in accordance with the requirements of any of the wiring methods in Chapter 3. Flexible cord-and-plug connection shall not be permitted. [ß] The branch circuit feeding the unit equipment shall be the same branch circuit as that serving the normal lighting in the area and connected ahead of any local switches. The branch circuit that feeds unit equipment shall be clearly identified at the distribution panel. Emergency luminaires (illumination fixtures) that obtain power from a unit equipment and are not part of the unit equipment shall be wired to the unit equipment as required by 700.10 and by one of the wiring methods of Chapter 3.
700.16  Revise the first paragraph of this section as follows: 
700.16  Emergency Illumination. 
Emergency illumination shall include all required means of egress lighting, illuminated exit signs, and all other lights specified as necessary to provide required illumination. Emergency illumination shall be provided at the location of transfer switches, switchboards and panelboards that supply emergency and legally required stand-by loads.
	 . . .
ARTICLE 760 – FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
760.46  Revise this section as follows:
760.46  NPLFA Circuit Wiring. 
Installation of non-power-limited fire alarm circuits shall be in accordance with 110.3(B), [ß] 300.11, 300.15, 300.17, 300.19(B) and other appropriate articles of Chapter 3. Conductors shall be installed in metallic raceways or concrete-encased nonmetallic raceways. 
Exception No. 1: As provided in Sections 760.48 through 760.53. 
Exception No. 2: [ß] [Editor's Note: Exception 2 is deleted by local amendment.]
760.130  Wiring Methods and Materials on Load Side of the PLFA Power Source.
760.130(A)  Revise this section as follows: 
	(A)	NPLFA Wiring Methods and Materials. Installation shall be in accordance with 760.46, and conductors shall be solid or stranded copper. 
Exception No. 1: The ampacity adjustment factors given in 310.15(B)(3)(a) shall not apply. 
Exception No. 2: Conductors and multiconductor cables described in and installed in accordance with 760.49 [ß] shall be permitted. 
Exception No. 3: Power-limited circuits shall be permitted to be reclassified and installed as non-power-limited circuits if the power-limited fire alarm circuit markings required by 760.124 are eliminated and the entire circuit is installed using the wiring methods and materials in accordance with Part II, Non-Power-Limited Fire Alarm Circuits. 
Informational Note: Power-limited circuits reclassified and installed as non-power-limited circuits are no longer power-limited circuits, regardless of the continued connection to a power-limited source.
760.130(B)  Revise this section as follows:
	(B)	PLFA Wiring Methods and Materials. Power-limited fire alarm conductors and cables described in 760.179 shall be installed in metallic raceway in accordance with 760.46. Devices shall be installed in accordance with 110.3(B), 300.11 (A), 300.15.
760.180  Add the following new section:
760.180  System Requirements. 
	(A)	Supervising Station Fire Alarm Systems. Supervising station fire alarm system wiring installed within or on buildings shall be installed in metallic raceways. 
	Exception: Communication conductors installed entirely within a dedicated telephone equipment room, switchboard area or fire control room. 
	(B)	Source of Power. Circuits supplying fire alarm control units that are not monitored by an approved supervising station, or a constantly attended location approved by the fire code official shall be connected to either the line or load side of the service disconnect. Circuits shall be protected by means of an externally operated fused safety switch or a circuit breaker either in a separate enclosure or within a switchboard entirely separate from other circuit breakers. The switch and/or circuit breaker shall be clearly labeled and locked in the on position. 
Informational Note: See SFEC (2013) 760.41& 760.121; CBC (2013) 903.4; NFPA 72 (2010) 10.5.3 ; NFPA 13 (2010) 6.9.4.1;
Chapter 8.
Communications Systems
No San Francisco Electrical Code Amendments
Chapter 9.
Tables and Examples
No San Francisco Electrical Code Amendments

GREEN BUILDING CODE
2013 Edition
The San Francisco Green Building Code is current through Ordinances approved through December 31, 2013.



Copyright © 2014
by
THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
A Municipal Corporation

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed by any means or stored in a database or retrieval system without prior written permission of the City and County of San Francisco.
PUPLISHER'S NOTE
	The full 2013 San Francisco Green Building Code consists of the 2013 California Green Building Standards Code, and as further amended by these San Francisco amendments.
	The San Francisco Green Building Code amendments contained herein are designed to be used in conjunction with the 2013 California Green Building Standards Code.
	The San Francisco Green Building Code amendments contained herein were adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco on November 5, 2013, by Ordinance 259-13, effective January 1, 2014.

2013 California Green Building
Standards Code}+Complete
San Francisco
Green Building Code2013 San Francisco Amendments
	Note that prior to this 2013 revision of the Building Inspection Commission Codes, material derived from the California Green Building Standards Codes was published as Chapter 13C of the San Francisco Building Code.
Supplements to this Code and complete copies of all six
Building Inspection Commission (BIC) Codes
(Building, Electrical, Green Building, Housing, Mechanical, and Plumbing)
can be ordered from:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
432 Walnut Street, Suite 1200
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202-3909
(800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
Text Format:
	The text in this publication is formatted to allow the user to quickly and easily determine the source of the included material. Language derived from the 2013 California Code that is unchanged by local amendment is printed in shaded text (see below). Language constituting San Francisco amendments to the California Code is printed in unformatted (or "plain") text. In either case, bold and/or italic typefaces may be used as appropriate for emphasis, etc. See below for examples. 
	To further simplify use of the San Francisco amendments with corresponding sections of the 2013 California Code, explanatory remarks appearing in italics are provided (in boxes at the beginning of affected provisions) indicating whether the San Francisco amendment to the California Code is adding, revising, or replacing a section or portion of a section.
	To summarize:
Explanatory remarks are boxed and italicized.
	Unchanged language from the 2013 California Code is shaded, and may include bold and/or italicized formatting.
	San Francisco amendments are printed in unformatted (“plain”) text, and may include bold and/or italicized formatting.
Historical Notations:
	Language which has been added, amended, or deleted from the 2013 publication of the San Francisco Green Building Code is indicated with an historical notation, setting forth the ordinance number and date of adoption.
Chapter 1
GENERAL
SECTION 101 – GENERAL
Revise this section as follows:
101.1  Title. These regulations shall be known as the San Francisco [ß] Green Building Code and may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this code." The San Francisco [ß] Green Building Code consists of the combination of Part 11 of the official compilation and publication of the adoption, amendment and repeal of building regulations to the California Code of Regulations, Title 24, and Chapter 13C of San Francisco Building Inspection Commission Amendments to the California Building Standards Code.
101.2  Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and welfare [ß] of San Francisco residents, workers, and visitors by minimizing waste of energy, water, and other resources in the construction and operation of buildings in the City and County of San Francisco and by providing a healthy indoor environment. The green building practices required by this chapter will also further the goal of reducing the greenhouse gas emissions in the City and County of San Francisco to 25 percent below 1990 levels by the year 2017, as stated in Board of Supervisors Resolution No. 158-02 and San Francisco Environment Code Chapter 9.
101.3  Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the planning, design, operation, construction, use and occupancy of every newly constructed building or structure, unless otherwise indicated in this code, as well as alterations to existing buildings throughout the [ß] City and County of San Francisco.
	While this code [ß] references green building programs, the City and County of San Francisco does not confer certification under any green building program.
101.3.1  Regulated [ß] buildings, structures and applications. Provisions of this code shall apply to the following buildings, structures, and applications regulated by state agencies as specified in Sections 103 through 106 of California Green Building Standards Code Title 24 Part 11, modified by local ordinance [ß] with supplemental requirements applicable to occupancy types A, B, I, M, and R as defined by California Building Code Title 24 Section 302 (2013) as amended pursuant to Section 101.7. When adopted by a state agency, the provisions of this code shall be enforced by the appropriate enforcing agency, but only to the extent of authority granted to such agency by statute.
101.4  Appendices. [Reserved] [ß]
101.6.1  Differences. In the event of any differences between these building standards and the standard reference documents, the text of this Chapter [ß] shall govern.
101.6.3  Conflicts. When the requirements of this code conflict with the requirements of any other part of the California Building Standards Code, Title 24, [ß] any provision contained elsewhere in the San Francisco Municipal Code, or any regulation or requirement adopted by the Public Utilities Commission or other City agency under its Charter authority, the most restrictive requirement shall prevail.
101.7  City and County Amendments, Additions and Deletions. [ß] This code includes the amendments, deletions, and additions to California green building requirements which maintain stricter local green building standards.
101.10  [ß]Equivalency. Wherever reference is made to the LEED® or GreenPoint Rated systems, a comparable equivalent rating system may be used if approved by the Director. The applicable LEED®, GreenPoint Rated or equivalent versions of performance standards for applications subject to this chapter are:
	LEED® for Green Interior Design and Construction v2009
	LEED® for Building Design and Construction v2009
	LEED® for Homes v2008 
	GreenPoint Rated (GPR) Single Family New Home Construction – v6
	GreenPoint Rated (GPR) Multifamily New Home Construction – v6
	GreenPoint Rated (GPR) Existing Multifamily – v6
	Wherever specific LEED® prerequisites or credits are cited, such references are to LEED® BD&C 2009. More recent LEED® and GreenPoint Rated versions may be used, provided the credits and points achieved are as or at least as stringent as LEED® BD&C 2009 or GPR v6.
	Wherever the LEED® or GreenPoint Rated systems include a minimum energy or other performance requirement, the permit applicant may choose to meet the minimum performance requirements with an alternative equivalent method approved by the Director.
	Compliance with any of these requirements may be verified and/or certified by any means, including third-party review, as approved by the Director.
101.11  Effective use of this code. The following steps may be used to establish which provisions of this code are applicable to a specific occupancy:
	1.	Establish the type of occupancy.
	2.	Find [ß] the section which covers the established occupancy.
	3.	Identify [ß] the minimum requirements of this code for the established occupancy in Sections 4 and 5.
	4.	[ß]Administrative Bulletin 93, provided by the Department of Building Inspection, summarizes how the requirements of San Francisco Green Building Code and relevant local requirements may be met. Appendices to Administrative Bulletin 93 include tabular summaries of required measures, and provide submittal forms.
Chapter 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION 202 – DEFINITIONS
Add and amend the following definitions:
	GREENPOINT RATED, GREENPOINTS and GREENPOINTS CHECKLIST. The residential green building rating system and checklist and certification methodology of the non-profit organization Build It Green.
	HIGH-RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. For the purposes of this code [ß], a building that is of Occupancy Group R and is four stories or greater.
	HISTORICAL RESOURCE. A property that meets the terms of the definitions in Section 21084.1 of the CEQA Statute (The California Environmental Quality Act [Public Resources Code Section 21084.1]) and Section 15064.5 of the CEQA Guidelines, as determined by the San Francisco Planning Department.
	LARGE COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A commercial building or addition of Group B, M, A, or I occupancy that is 25,000 gross square feet or more.
	LEED® and LEED® CHECKLIST. The Leadership in Energy and Environment Design rating system, certification methodology, and checklist of the United States Green Building Council (USGBC).
	LOW-RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. For the purposes of this code, [ß] a building that is of Occupancy Group R and is three stories or less or that is a one or two family dwelling or townhouse.
	MAJOR ALTERATIONS. Alterations where interior finishes are removed and significant upgrades to structural and mechanical, electrical and/or plumbing systems are proposed where areas of such construction are 25,000 gross square feet or more in Group B, M or R occupancies of existing buildings.
	MID-SIZE COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A commercial building of Group B or M occupancy that is 5,000 or more and less than 25,000 gross square feet, and is not a high-rise building. 
	NEWLY CONSTRUCTED (or NEW CONSTRUCTION). A newly constructed building (or new construction) is a building that has never before been used or occupied for any purpose and does not include additions, alterations or repairs. 
	NEW LARGE COMMERCIAL INTERIORS. First-time tenant improvements where areas of such construction are over 25,000 gross square feet or more in Group B or M occupancy areas of existing buildings.
Chapter 3	
GREEN BUILDING
SECTION 301 – GENERAL
Revise this section as follows:
301.1  Scope. Buildings in the City and County of San Francisco [ß] shall be designed to include the green building measures specified as mandatory under the California Green Building Standards Code (CalGreen). 
	Additional green building requirements established by the City and County of San Francisco are mandatory for:
	(1)	Newly constructed Group R occupancy buildings, 
	(2)	Newly constructed buildings of Group B, M, A, and I occupancies that are 25,000 gross square feet or more, 
	(3)	New first-time build-outs of commercial interiors that are 25,000 gross square feet or more in buildings of Group B or M occupancies, and 
	(4)	Major alterations that are 25,000 gross square feet or more in existing buildings of Group B, M or R occupancies, where interior finishes are removed and significant upgrades to structural and mechanical, electrical and/or plumbing systems are proposed.
	Exempt from additional local requirements of this chapter, unless otherwise noted, are: 
	(1)	Any new building in which laboratory use of any occupancy classification is the primary use, and 
	(2)	Any building undergoing renovation in which the area of renovation will be primarily for laboratory use of any occupancy classification.
SECTION 302 – MIXED OCCUPANCY BUILDINGS
Revise this section as follows:
302.1  Mixed Occupancy Buildings. In mixed occupancy buildings, each portion of a building shall comply with the specific California Title 24 Part 11 required [ß] measures applicable to each specific occupancy. However, to fulfill any additional local green building requirements, the project sponsor may apply a single required green building standard to the entire building.
SECTION 303 – PHASED PROJECTS
Add the following section:
303.1.1.1  Maintenance of required features. Any structure subject to this chapter shall maintain the green building features required herein, or equivalent, regardless of subsequent alterations, additions, or changes of use, unless subject to subsequent or more stringent requirements.
SECTION 304 – VOLUNTARY TIERS
Revise this section as follows:
	[ß]This section not applicable in San Francisco.
SECTION 305 [OSHPD 1] – CALGREEN TIER 1 AND CALGREEN TIER 2
Revise this section as follows:
	[ß]This section not applicable in San Francisco.
SECTION 306 – VOLUNTARY MEASURES
Revise this section as follows:
	[ß]This section not applicable in San Francisco.
Chapter 4
RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS
Division 4.1
PLANNING AND DESIGN
SECTION 4.101 – GENERAL
Revise this section as follows:
4.101.1  Scope. The provisions of this division outline planning, design and development methods that include environmentally responsible site selection, building design, building siting and development to protect, restore, enhance the environmental quality of the site, respect the integrity of adjacent properties, and promote the health, safety and welfare of San Francisco residents. [ß]
Add the following section:
SECTION 4.103 – REQUIREMENTS FOR GROUP R OCCUPANCY BUILDINGS
4.103.1  New Low-rise Residential Buildings.
4.103.1.1  Rating requirements. New low-rise residential buildings must be GreenPoint Rated and applicants must submit documentation demonstrating that a minimum of 75 GreenPoints from the GreenPoints Single Family New Construction Checklist or the GreenPoints Multifamily New Construction Checklist will be achieved. Alternatively, this rating requirement may be met by obtaining LEED Silver certification.
4.103.1.2  Stormwater management. Projects subject to this section shall meet the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission stormwater management requirements.
4.103.2  New High-rise Residential Buildings.
4.103.2.1  Rating requirement. Permit applicants must submit documentation to achieve LEED® "Silver" certification. Alternatively, this rating requirement may be met by obtaining the GreenPoint Rated designation and submitting documentation demonstrating that a minimum of 75 GreenPoints from the GreenPoint Rated Multifamily New Construction checklist will be achieved.
4.103.2.2  Indoor water use reduction. Permit applicants must submit documentation verifying that a minimum 30 percent reduction in the use of indoor potable water is achieved, as calculated to meet LEED® credit WE3.2. Projects applying GreenPoint Rated or other equivalent rating systems may alternately use the CALGreen Performance Method (Title 24 Part 11 Section 4.301.1.2) to demonstrate 30% reduction.
4.103.2.3  Construction debris management. Permit applicants must submit documentation verifying the diversion of a minimum 75 percent of the projects construction and demolition debris, as calculated to meet LEED® credit MR2.2. The waste management plan necessary to meet this requirement shall be updated as necessary and shall be accessible during construction for examination by the Department of Building Inspection. Permit applicants must also meet the requirements of San Francisco Environment Code Chapter 14 and San Francisco Building Code Chapter 13B (Construction and Demolition Debris Recovery Program).
4.103.2.4  Stormwater management. Projects subject to this section shall meet the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission stormwater management requirements.
4.103.2.4.1  Construction activity stormwater pollution prevention. All projects, whether greater or lesser than one acre, must develop and implement construction activity pollution prevention and site run-off controls adopted by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, as well as LEED® prerequisite SSp1, as applicable. 
4.103.3  Major Alterations to Existing Group R Occupancy Buildings.
4.103.3.1  Rating requirement. Permit applicants must submit documentation to achieve a LEED® Gold rating. Alternatively, this rating requirement may be met by obtaining the GreenPoint Rated designation and submitting documentation demonstrating that a minimum of 75 GreenPoints from the GreenPoint Rated Multifamily checklist will be achieved. Major alterations applying to less than 80% of the building's gross floor area may alternately obtain the GreenPoint Rated Elements designation and submit documentation demonstrating that 49 points from the GreenPoint Rated Multifamily checklist have been achieved. 
4.103.3.2  Low-emitting materials. Alterations utilizing LEED® must submit documentation to verify the use of low-emitting materials meeting the LEED® credits EQ 4.1 (adhesives and sealants), EQ 4.2 (paints and coatings), and EQ 4.3 (carpet systems) where applicable. Alterations utilizing GreenPoint Rated must submit documentation to verify the use of low-emitting materials meeting the GreenPoint Rated Multifamily New Homes measures for low-emitting coatings, adhesives and sealants, and carpet systems.
Add the following section:
SECTION 4.104 – HISTORIC PRESERVATION
4.104.1  On-site Retention of Historical Features. For alterations of buildings determined to be historical resources, after demonstrating compliance with all applicable codes, including the 2013 California Building Energy Efficiency Standards (Title 24, Part 6) and the 2013 California Historical Building Code (Title 24, Part 8), the minimum points or credits required under this chapter shall be reduced for retention and in-situ reuse or restoration of certain character defining features, as follows:

TABLE 4.104.A
SIGNIFICANT HISTORICAL ARCHITECTURAL FEATURESPERCENT RETAINED*ADJUST-
MENT TO MINIMUM LEED POINT REQUIRE-
MENTADJUST- MENT TO MINIMUM GREEN- POINTS REQUIRE-
MENTWindows @ principal façade(s)At least 50%27Windows @ principal façade(s)At least 75%311Windows @ principal façade(s) 100%415Other windowsAt least 50%13Other windows100%26Exterior doors @ principal façade(s)100%13Siding or wall finish @ principal façade(s) 80%14Trim & casing @ wall openings on principal façade(s) 100%13Roof cornices or decorative eaves visible from right-of-way100%13Sub-cornices, belt courses, water tables, and running trim visible from right-of-way80%13Character-defining elements of significant interior spacesAt least 50%27Character-defining elements of significant interior spaces100%415Other exterior ornamentation (e.g. cartouches, corbels, quoins, etc.) visible from right-of-way80%13
 * Retention includes the rehabilitation and repair of character-defining features that conform to the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties.
Add the following section: 
SECTION 4.105 – DEMOLITION OF EXISTING STRUCTURES
4.105.1  Adjustments to Rating Requirements for Building Demolition and Density. Applications subject to the San Francisco Green Building Code, whereby construction of a new building is proposed within five years of the demolition of a building on the site, where such demolition occurred after the effective date of the Green Building Ordinance - November 3, 2008 - the sustainability requirements for new buildings pursuant to the San Francisco Green Building Code shall be increased as follows:
4.105.1.1  LEED® Projects. For projects attaining a LEED® certification:
	(1)	Where the building demolished was an historical resource, the required points shall be increased by 10 points. 
	(2)	Where the building demolished was not an historical resource, the required points shall be increased by 6 additional points. 
	(3)	Where the building demolished was not an historical resource and the number of dwellings in the residential portion of the replacement structure are tripled, the required points shall be increased by 5 additional points.
4.105.1.2  GreenPoint Rated projects. For projects attaining GreenPoint Rated:
	(1)	Where the building demolished was an historical resource, the required points shall be increased by 25 additional points. 
	(2)	Where the building demolished was not an historical resource, the required points shall be increased by 20 additional points. 
	(3)	Where the building demolished was not an historical resource and the number of dwellings in the residential portion of the replacement structure are tripled, the required points shall be increased by 17 additional points.
Division 4.2
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
SECTION 4.201– GENERAL
Add the following section:
4.201.1  Energy Performance. [Reserved]
Chapter 5
NONRESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS
Division 5.1
PLANNING AND DESIGN
SECTION 5.101 – GENERAL
Revise this section as follows:
5.101  Scope. The provisions of this chapter outline planning, design and development methods that include environmentally responsible site selection, building design, building siting and development to protect, restore, and enhance the environmental quality of the site, respect the integrity of adjacent properties, and promote the health, safety and welfare of San Francisco residents. [ß]
Add the following section:
SECTION 5.103 – REQUIREMENTS FOR GROUP A, B, I, AND M BUILDINGS
5.103.1  New Large Commercial Buildings.
5.103.1.1  Rating requirement. Permit applicants must submit documentation to achieve LEED® "Gold" certification.
5.103.1.2  Indoor water use reduction. Permit applicants must submit documentation verifying that a minimum 30 percent reduction in the use of indoor potable water is achieved, as calculated to meet LEED® credit WE3.2.
5.103.1.3  Construction debris management. Permit applicants must submit documentation verifying the diversion of a minimum 75 percent of the projects construction and demolition debris, as calculated to meet LEED® credit MR2.2. Permit applicants must also meet the requirements of San Francisco Environment Code Chapter 14 and San Francisco Building Code Chapter 13B (Construction and Demolition Debris Recovery Program.) The waste management plan necessary to meet this requirement shall be updated as necessary and shall be accessible during construction for examination by the Department of Building Inspection.
5.103.1.4  Commissioning. Permit applicants must submit documentation verifying that the facility has been or will meet the criteria necessary to meet LEED® credit EA 3.0 (Enhanced Commissioning), in addition to LEED® prerequisite EAp1 (Fundamental Commissioning of Building Energy Systems.) 
5.103.1.5  Renewable energy. Effective January 1, 2012, permit applicants must submit documentation verifying either:
	(1)	Acquisition of renewable on-site energy or purchase of green energy credits in accord with LEED EA2 or EA6, OR 
	(2)	Achieve a 10% compliance margin over Title 24 Part 6 2013 California Energy Standards.
5.103.1.6 Stormwater management. Projects subject to this section shall meet the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission stormwater management requirements. All new building projects must develop and implement an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan or Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan and implement site run-off controls adopted by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission as applicable. 
5.103.1.7  Energy performance. [Reserved]
5.103.1.8  Temporary ventilation and IAQ management during construction. Permit applicants must submit documentation verifying that an Indoor Air Quality Management Plan is prepared and implemented which meets LEED® credit EQ 3.1. and Title 24 Part 11 5.504.1.3.
5.103.1.9  Low Emitting Materials. Permit applicants must submit documentation verifying that low-emitting materials are used, subject to on-site verification, meeting LEED® credits EQ 4.1, EQ 4.2, EQ 4.3, and EQ 4.4 wherever applicable.
	Exceptions: 100% reused or 100% post consumer recycled hard surface flooring may be exempted from this requirement. Projects exercising this exemption must otherwise be eligible for LEED® credit EQ 4.3.
	Interior composite wood and agrifiber products shall meet LEED® credit EQ 4.4 by containing no added urea formaldehyde resins. Interior and exterior hardwood plywood, particleboard, and medium density fiberboard composite wood products shall additionally meet California Air Resources Board Air Toxics Control Measure for Composite Wood (17 CCR 93120 et seq.), by or before the dates specified in those sections.
5.103.1.10  CALGreen mandatory measures. The following measures are mandatory in California for new non-residential buildings. Optionally, relevant LEED® credits can be used as alternative compliance paths, as noted below:

Title 24 Part 11 Section(s)Topic/RequirementAlternate Compliance Option:5.106.4Bicycle ParkingN/A5.106.5Fuel efficient vehicle and carpool parkingMeet LEED® SSc4.3 and/or SSc4.4, and demonstrate that 8% of parking is designated for fuel efficient vehicle and carpool parking.5.106.8Light pollution reductionMeet LEED® credit SS 85.106.10Drainage management planN/A5.303.1Water submetersN/A5.303.3.3.2Multiple showerheads in one shower stall must not exceed maximum flow rate for single showerheadN/A5.503.1Fireplaces in non-residential occupancy must meet residential efficiency and emissions requirements,N/A5.407.2.2 
5.504.5.3Indoor chemical and pollutant source controlMeet LEED® credit EQ 55.507.4 
5.507.4.1
5.507.4.2Acoustical control and noise transmissionN/A5.508.1.2Halons not allowed in HVAC, refrigeration and fire suppression equipment.Meet LEED® credit EA 4, and additionally document that all HVAC&R systems do not contain CFCs or halons. 5.103.2  New Mid-size Commercial Buildings.
5.103.2.2  Construction debris management. Permit applicants must submit documentation verifying the diversion of a minimum 75 percent of the projects construction and demolition debris, as calculated either to meet LEED® credit MR2.2 or equivalent. Permit applicants must also meet the requirements of San Francisco Environment Code Chapter 14 and San Francisco Building Code Chapter 13B (Construction and Demolition Debris Recovery Program.) The waste management plan necessary to meet this requirement shall be updated as necessary and shall be accessible during construction for examination by the Department of Building Inspection.
5.103.2.3  Renewable energy. Effective January 1, 2012, permit applicants must submit documentation verifying that either:
	(1)	Acquisition of renewable on-site energy or purchase of green energy credits in accord with LEED EA2 or EA6, OR 
	(2)	In addition to meeting 5.103.2.5 Energy Performance requirement, achieve an additional 10% compliance margin over Title 24 Part 6 (2013) California Energy Standards.
5.103.2.5  Energy performance. [Reserved]
5.103.3  Major Alterations to Existing Non Residential Buildings.
5.103.3.1  Rating requirement. Permit applicants must submit documentation to achieve LEED® "Gold" certification.
5.103.3.2  Low emitting materials. Permit applicants must submit documentation to verify the use of low-emitting materials meeting LEED® EQ4.1, EQ4.2, EQ 4.3 and EQ4.4 wherever applicable.
5.103.4  New Large Commercial Interiors.
5.103.4.1  Rating requirement. Permit applicants must submit documentation to achieve LEED® LEED® "Gold" certification.
5.103.4.2  Low emitting materials. Permit applicants must submit documentation verifying that low-emitting materials are used, subject to in-site verification, meeting LEED® credits EQ4.1, EQ4.2, EQ4.3 and EQ 4.4 wherever applicable.
Add the following section:
SECTION 5.104 – HISTORIC PRESERVATION
5.104.1  On-site Retention of Historical Features. For alterations of buildings determined to be historical resources, after demonstrating compliance with all applicable codes, including the 2013 California Building energy Efficiency Standards (Title 24, Part 6) and the 2013 California Historical Building Code (Title 24, Part 8), the minimum points or credits required under this chapter shall be reduced for retention and in-situ reuse or restoration of certain character defining features, as follows:
TABLE 5.104.A
SIGNIFICANT HISTORICAL ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES PERCENT RETAINED*ADJUST- MENT TO MINIMUM LEED POINT REQUIRE- MENTADJUST- MENT TO MINIMUM GREEN- POINTS 
REQUIRE- MENTWindows @ principal façade(s)At least 50%27Windows @ principal façade(s)At least 75%311Windows @ principal façade(s) 100%415Other windowsAt least 50%13Other windows100%26Exterior doors @ principal façade(s)100%13Siding or wall finish @ principal façade(s) 80%14Trim & casing @ wall openings on principal façade(s) 100%13Roof cornices or decorative eaves visible from right-of-way100%13Sub-cornices, belt courses, water tables, and running trim visible from right-of-way80%13Character-defining elements of significant interior spacesAt least 50%27Character-defining elements of significant interior spaces100%415Other exterior ornamentation (e.g. cartouches, corbels, quoins, etc.) visible from right-of-way80%13
 * Retention includes the rehabilitation and repair of character-defining features that conform to the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties.
Add the following section:
SECTION 5.105 – DEMOLITION OF EXISTING STRUCTURES
5.105.1  Adjustments to Rating Requirements. Applications subject to the San Francisco Green Building Code, whereby construction of a new building is proposed within five years of the demolition of a building on the site, where such demolition occurred after November 3, 2008, the sustainability requirements for new buildings pursuant to the San Francisco Green Building Code shall be increased as follows:
5.105.1.1  LEED® projects. For projects attaining a LEED® certification:
	(1)	Where the building demolished was an historical resource, the required points shall be increased by 10 points, which is 10% of the total available in the LEED® rating system, absent demolition.
	(2)	Where the building demolished was not an historical resource, the required points shall be increased by 6 additional points, which is 10% of the maximum total required points under this chapter, absent demolition. 
	(3)	Where the building demolished was not an historical resource and the number of dwellings in the residential portion of the replacement structure are tripled, the required points shall be increased by 5 additional points, which is 8% of the maximum total required points under this chapter, absent demolition.
5.105.1.2  GreenPoint Rated projects. For projects attaining GreenPoint Rated:
	(1)	Where the building demolished was an historical resource, the required points shall be increased by 25 additional points. 
	(2)	Where the building demolished was not an historical resource, the required points shall be increased by 20 additional points. 
	(3)	Where the building demolished was not an historical resource and the number of dwellings in the residential portion of the replacement structure are tripled, the required points shall be increased by 17 additional points.
Division 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY
SECTION 5.201 – GENERAL
Add the following section:
5.201.1.1  Energy performance. [Reserved]
Chapter 7
INSTALLER AND SPECIAL INSPECTOR QUALIFICATIONS
SECTION 701 – GENERAL
Add the following section:
701.1  These requirements apply to installers and Special inspectors with regards to the requirements of this chapter.
SECTION 702 – QUALIFICATIONS
Modify the following section:
702.2  Special Inspection. …
	2.	Certification by a statewide energy consulting or verification organization, such as HERS raters, building performance contractors, home energy auditors, [ß] and ICC Certified CALGreen Inspectors.
Add the following section:
702.3  Special Inspection. The Director of the Department of Building Inspection may require special inspection to verify compliance with this code or other laws that are enforced by the agency. The special inspector shall be a qualified person who shall demonstrate competence, to the satisfaction of the Director of the Department of Building Inspection, for inspection of the particular type of construction or operation requiring special inspection. In addition, the special inspector shall have a certification from a recognized state, national, or international association, as determined by the Director of the Department of Building Inspection. The area of certification shall be closely related to the primary job function, as determined by the local agency.
SECTION 7.703 – VERIFICATIONS
Modify the section as follows:
7.703.1  Documentation. Documentation used to show compliance with this code shall include but is not limited to, construction documents, plans, specifications, builder or installer certification, inspection reports, or other methods acceptable to the Director of the Department of Building Inspection [ß] which demonstrate substantial conformance. When specific documentation or special inspection is necessary to verify compliance, that method of compliance will be specified in [ß] Administrative Bulletin 93.

HOUSING CODE
2013 Edition
The San Francisco Housing Code is current through Ordinances approved through December 31, 2013.



Copyright © 2014
by
THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
A Municipal Corporation

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed by any means or stored in a database or retrieval system without prior written permission of the City and County of San Francisco.
PUBLISHER'S NOTE
	The 2013 Edition of the Housing Code contained herein is a reprint of the 2007 San Francisco Housing Code, as adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco on November 6, 2007, by Ordinance 256-07, effective January 1, 2008, as amended by legislation thereafter.

Supplements to this Code and complete copies of all six
Building Inspection Commission (BIC) Codes
(Building, Electrical, Green Building, Housing, Mechanical, and Plumbing)
can be ordered from:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
432 Walnut Street, Suite 1200
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202-3909
(800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
www.amlegal.com

PREFACE
Historical Notations:
	Language which has been added, amended, or deleted from the 2007 publication of the San Francisco Housing Code is indicated with an historical notation, setting forth the ordinance number and date of adoption.
Chapter 1
TITLE AND SCOPE
Sec. 100.Policy.Sec. 101.Title.Sec. 102.Purpose.Sec. 103.Scope.Sec. 104.Application to Existing Buildings and Structures.Sec. 105.Alternate Materials.
SEC. 100.  POLICY.
	It is found and declared that there exist in the City and County of San Francisco substandard and unsanitary residential buildings and dwelling units whose physical conditions and characteristics render them unfit or unsafe for human occupancy and habitation, and which conditions and characteristics are such as to be detrimental to or jeopardize the health, safety and welfare of their occupants and of the public.
	It is further found and declared that there exist in the City and County of San Francisco residential buildings and dwelling units which were legally constructed according to standards now generally recognized to be obsolete and deficient in terms of current, modern housing standards for construction, use, occupancy, light and ventilation and sanitary facilities. The continued existence of these obsolete and deficient residential buildings and dwelling units is detrimental to or jeopardizes the health, safety and welfare of their occupants and of the public.
	It is further found and declared that the existence of such substandard buildings by reason of being unsanitary, obsolete and deficient as dwelling units threatens the physical, social and economic stability of sound residential buildings and areas, and of their supporting neighborhood facilities and institutions; necessitates disproportionate expenditures of public funds for remedial action; impairs the efficient and economical exercise of governmental powers and functions; and destroys the amenity of residential areas and neighborhoods and of the community as a whole.
	For these reasons it is hereby declared to be the policy of the City and County of San Francisco:
	(1)	That it is in the public interest of the people of San Francisco to protect and promote the existence of sound and wholesome residential buildings, dwelling units and neighborhoods by the adoption and enforcement of such standards, regulations and procedures as will remedy the existence or prevent the development or creation of dangerous, substandard, unsanitary or obsolete and deficient residential buildings and dwelling units.
	(2)	That the adoption and enforcement of a Housing Code is a necessary municipal governmental function in the interest of health, safety and welfare of the people of San Francisco.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 101.  TITLE.
	This Code, known as the 2007 Housing Code, is a portion of the San Francisco Municipal Code, and is referred to herein as "this Code."
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 102.  PURPOSE.
	The purpose of this Code is to provide for the maintenance of the minimum requirements for the protection of life, limb, health, property, safety and welfare of the general public and the owners and occupants of residential buildings in San Francisco. In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Code and other provisions of the Municipal Code, the most restrictive shall govern except as set forth in Section 104(a).
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 103.  SCOPE.
	The provisions of this Code shall apply to all existing buildings or portions thereof used, designed or intended for residential use, except that said provisions shall apply to homeless shelters only to the extent provided by subsection (7) below. Buildings in existence at the time of the passage of this Code may have their existing use or occupancy continued, if such use or occupancy was legal at the time of the passage of this Code, provided the building construction met the code requirements in effect at the time of construction and alteration, and such continued use is not dangerous to life and is not substandard, or that such use or occupancy does not now need additional Code requirements applied by adoption of a retroactive provision such as those referenced in Section 206 of this Code. All buildings and structures, both existing and new, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. All devices or safeguards which are required by this Code shall be maintained in conformance with the Code edition under which installed, unless otherwise required by the Building Code or other adopted ordinance applied retroactively. The owner or the owner's designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of the buildings and structures.
	Wherever used in this Code, the terms "residential use," "dwelling," "hotel" and "apartment house" shall be considered to include the additional terms as follows:
	"Dwelling" shall include lodging houses, nursing homes for not more than five persons, and the other occupancies referred to in Section 310 of the Building Code.
	"Apartment house" or "hotel" shall include dormitories designed for more than five persons and occupancies referred to in Section 310 of the Building Code. Such occupancies in existing buildings may be continued except when such structures are found to be substandard as defined in this Code.
		(1)	Any building or structure not erected as an apartment house, hotel or dwelling, which is converted to or altered for such use, shall conform to all the provisions of the Building Code for such use.
		(2)	In any building erected as a combined apartment house and hotel, or any building altered or converted into a combined apartment house and hotel, every portion thereof used for apartment house purposes, including each apartment, shall comply with all apartment house requirements of the Building Code or this Code; and every portion thereof used for hotel purposes, including each guest room, guest room suite, and dormitory shall comply with all the hotel requirements of the Building Code or this Code.
		(3)	It is unlawful to increase the percentage of the lot occupied or in any manner, whether by sale, conveyance or otherwise, to diminish the required size of yards, courts, passageways, shafts, windows or skylights, or to remove any required sanitary facility, fire protection equipment, device, safeguard, installation, stairway or fire escape, or to obstruct the egress from any building or from the hallways, passageways or stairways.
		(4)	If it is reconstructed, any building which has been damaged by fire or the elements shall conform to all applicable provisions of the Building Code.
		(5)	Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Code, all applicable provisions of the San Francisco Municipal Code shall be complied with in the construction, alteration or repair of residential buildings.
		(6)	It is further provided that the Director of the Department of Building Inspection may adopt and promulgate rules and regulations supplemental to this Code and not in conflict therewith, provided they are the most generally accepted or approved methods and practices for public welfare and safety of life and property. Such rules and regulations shall be subject to reexamination and change if at any time such rules and regulations are found by any enforcement agency not to be in conformance with the intent or requirements of the Municipal Code.
		(7)	Notwithstanding Section 206 or any other provision of this Code, use of any building or portion thereof by an organization exempt from federal income tax under Internal Revenue Code Sections 501(c)(3) or 501(d), as approved by an authorized government agency, to shelter otherwise homeless persons, or construction, alteration or repair of any building to initiate, expand or continue such a shelter, shall be subject to only those provisions of this Code which are determined by the Director of the Department of Building Inspection pursuant to an administrative bulletin to be published by him, after consultation with the Building Inspection Commission and the Fire Department, to be necessary or appropriate to prevent the building from being or becoming a nuisance as defined in this Code. Any provision waived by said bulletin shall be applied when homeless shelter use ceases, and may be applied when homeless shelter use is reduced.
		(8)	Rooming houses, congregate residences or lodging houses shall comply with all requirements of this Code for dwellings.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 104.  APPLICATION TO EXISTING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
	(a)	Existing Buildings. All buildings erected after July 26, 1958 shall comply either with the codes in effect at the time of construction or the present Building, Electrical and Plumbing Codes at the discretion of the owner.
		All buildings altered or converted prior to July 26, 1958 which do not conform to the codes in effect at the time of the alteration or conversion and the provisions of this Code shall be reconverted back to the original approved state and brought into compliance with the retroactive requirements applicable to the original structure, or conform to all the applicable requirements outlined in the present codes.
		Pursuant to Section 102 of this Code regarding the maintenance of all buildings constructed, altered or converted to Group R, Division 1 and 3 occupancy prior to January 1, 1984, said buildings shall comply with the 1979 San Francisco Building Code. Pursuant to Section 102 of this Code regarding the maintenance of all buildings constructed, altered or converted to Group R, Division 1, 2, and 3 occupancy after January 1, 1984, said buildings shall comply with the codes that are in effect at that time.
	(b)	Relocation. Buildings or structures moved into or within this jurisdiction shall comply with the requirements in the Building Code for new buildings and structures.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 105.  ALTERNATE MATERIALS.
	See Section 104A.11 of the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
Chapter 2 
ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 201.General.Sec. 202.Reserved.Sec. 203.Housing Advisory and Appeals Board.Sec. 204.Violations.Sec. 205.Posted Notices, Interference With.Sec. 206.Retroactive Provisions.Sec. 207.Assuming Responsibility for the Mobile Homes Park Act.
SEC. 201.  GENERAL.
	(a)	Authority. The Director of the Department of Building Inspection shall administer and enforce all of the provisions of this Code. The Director is hereby designated as the authorized representative of the Building Inspection Commission in such enforcement. The Director is hereby authorized to call upon the Director of City Planning, the Director of Public Health, the Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police and all other City officers, employees, departments and bureaus to aid and assist him in such enforcement, and it shall then be their duty to enforce the provisions of this Code and to perform such duties as may come within their respective jurisdictions.
	Upon completion of an inspection of a structure or portion of a structure, the owner or occupant thereof shall be furnished by the Department of Building Inspection with a standard form which clearly and simply indicates the violations found and the sections of this Code which are not complied with. Copies of all forms used to enforce this code shall be furnished the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, to be held on file with the Board of Supervisors.
	(b)	Right of Entry. Upon showing proper credentials, which shall include a statement apprising an owner or occupant of his rights and obligations, authorized employees of City departments, when necessary for the performance of their duties, shall have the right to enter at reasonable times any new or unoccupied building and any building under construction, repair, alteration or removal and any other building when there is reasonable ground for believing said building or any part there of to be illegal, unsafe or a menace to life or limb; or in making their routine inspections as required under the License Code.
	The procedures provided by the general laws of the State of California, presently codified as Sections 1822.50 to 1822.57, inclusive, of the Code of Civil Procedure, shall govern the issuance, execution and enforcement of an inspection warrant in the event the owner or occupant of a building refuses to permit an inspection thereof by an authorized employee of a City department.
	(c)	Reserved.
	(d)	Order of Vacation. The Director of the Department of Building Inspection shall give written notification of any order to vacate to the Chief of Police who shall thereupon cause the same to be executed and enforced.
	(e)	Abatement. For abatement procedures, see Chapter 1A of the Building Code.
	(f)	Designation of Code Enforcement Areas. Whenever it is found to be in the interests of the people of San Francisco to engage in concentrated code enforcement on an area-wide basis, the following procedure shall be followed:
		(1)	The area to be designated for code enforcement activity shall be selected by the Director of the Department of City Planning and recommended to the Chief Administrative Officer.
		(2)	The Chief Administrative Officer, if that person approves said area as being acceptable for concentrated code enforcement, shall submit same to the Board of Supervisors requesting the Board to designate the area for concentrated code enforcement.
		(3)	Upon the Board of Supervisors designating the area and unless Federal or State funds are to be utilized which would necessitate filing an application for same, the Department of Building Inspection shall commence the inspection of every building and structure in the designated area to determine the condition of the buildings and to bring about compliance with the applicable codes.
		(4)	In the event the Federal government or the State government is involved in the financial assistance or funding of the program the first action by the Board will be to approve the filing of an application to the Federal or State agency for funding or assistance. Upon approval of the application by the Federal or State agency, the final contractual arrangements between that agency and the City shall require the approval by the Board of Supervisors.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 202.  RESERVED.
SEC. 203.  HOUSING ADVISORY AND APPEALS BOARD.
	(a)	General. Abatement Appeals Board. See Section 105A.2 of the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 204.  VIOLATIONS.
	(a)	Criminal Penalty for Violation; Citations.
		(1)	Any person or entity who violates, disobeys, omits, fails, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists or opposes the execution of any of the provisions of this Code, or any notice or order of the Director of the Department of Building Inspection made pursuant to this Code, relating to fire safety, the provision of heat or hot water, or the existence of conditions that endanger the life, limb, health or safety of any person or the public may be charged with a misdemeanor pursuant to Section 204(b). The penalty upon conviction thereof shall be a fine of not less than $500 or more than $1,000, or imprisonment, no part of which may be suspended. A person convicted of violating this Code shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day such violation, disobedience, omission, failure, neglect or refusal shall continue. Any person who shall do any work in violation of any of the provisions of this Code, or any order of the Director of the Department of Building Inspection made pursuant to this Code, and any person having charge of such work who shall permit it to be done, shall be liable for the penalty provided.
		(2)	Any person or entity who violates, disobeys, omits, fails, neglects or refuses to comply with any provision of this Code, or any notice or order of the Director of the Department of Building Inspection made pursuant to this Code which is not chargeable under Section 204(a)(1) may be charged with an infraction, and a citation may be issued pursuant to Section 204(b). Pursuant to California Government Code Section 36900 and 36901, the fine for infractions shall be as follows:
			(i)	A fine not exceeding $100 for the initial violation;
			(ii)	A fine not exceeding $200 for the second violation of the same section of the Code within one year of the first violation;
			(iii)	A fine not exceeding $500 for each additional violation of the same section of the Code within one year of the first violation.
	(b)	Department Members as Public Officers. In the performance of their duties of monitoring and enforcing compliance with the provisions of this Code, all persons authorized by the Housing Inspection Division of the Department of Building Inspection to conduct on-site inspections shall have the power, authority and immunity of a public officer and employee as set forth in California Penal Code Section 836.5, to make arrests without a warrant whenever such employees have reasonable cause to believe that a violation of this Code has taken place in their presence; provided, however, that no such arrest shall be made until the time period for compliance provided in the initial notice of violation has expired. In any case in which a person is arrested pursuant to this authority and the person arrested does not demand to be taken before a magistrate, the public officer or employee making the arrest shall prepare a written notice to appear and shall release the person on their promise to appear as prescribed by Chapter 5C (commencing with Section 853.6) of the California Penal Code.
	The Director of the Department of Building Inspection, in coordination with the Chief of Police, shall establish and cause to be administered an enforcement training program designed to instruct each employee so authorized by this Section to exercise arrest and citation authority. Such training shall include guidance and instruction regarding the evidentiary prerequisites to proper prosecution of violations thereof; the appropriate procedures for making arrests or otherwise prudently exercising such arrest and citation authority; and the legal and practical ramifications and limitations relevant to exercising enforcement authority.
	(c)	Presumption of Noncompliance with Order; Civil Penalty for Violation of Code.
		(1)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, any person or entity served, in any manner permitted for service of process under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, with a notice or order by the Director of the Department of Building Inspection setting forth the nature of the violation of this Code, demanding correction of such violation, and specifying the time within which such violation must be corrected, shall be presumed, in civil proceedings, to have failed to comply with said notice or order at and after the time given in said notice or order for correction of such violation has expired without correction of said violation.
		(2)	Any person or entity violating this Code shall be liable for a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, which penalty shall be assessed and recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the people of the City and County of San Francisco by the City Attorney in any court of competent jurisdiction. There shall be no more than one violation per building per day. In assessing the amount of the civil penalty, the court shall consider any one or more of the relevant circumstances presented by any of the parties to the case, but not limited to, the following: the nature and seriousness of the misconduct, the number of violations, the persistence of the misconduct, the length of time over which the misconduct occurred, the willfulness of the defendant's misconduct, and the defendant's asset's, liabilities and net worth. Any penalty assessed and recovered in an action brought pursuant to this paragraph shall be paid to the City Treasurer and credited to the Department of Building Inspection's Special Fund.
		(3)	The remedies in this Section are in addition to any other remedies provided by law. No provision in this Section shall preclude prosecution of actions for civil criminal penalties concurrently, sequentially or individually.
	(d)	Civil Remedies for Violation of Section 503(d). In addition to the penalties specified in Subsection (a) of this Section, Section 503(d) of this Code may also be enforced by a civil action authorized under this subsection.
		(1)	Any aggrieved person may enforce Section 503(d) of this Code by means of a civil action.
		(2)	Any person who violates Section 503(d) of this Code or who aids in the violation of Section 503(d) of this Code shall be liable for three times the amount of special and general damages, or three times the amount of one month's rent that the landlord charges for the unit in question. The court may award in addition thereto, not less than $200 but not more than $400, together with punitive damages. The interested party instituting a civil proceeding, or the City suing to enforce Section 503(d), if prevailing parties, shall be entitled to the costs of enforcing Section 503(d), including reasonable attorney's fees, pursuant to a court order.
		(3)	Any person who commits, or proposes to commit, an action in violation of Section 503(d) may be enjoined therefrom by any court of competent jurisdiction.
		(4)	Any action under this subsection may be brought by any aggrieved person, by the District Attorney, by the City Attorney, or be any interested party on behalf of the aggrieved person.
		(5)	Any action brought under this subsection shall be filed within one year of the alleged violation.
	(e)	Special Assessment Lien to Recover Fees or Costs. Any person, the owner or their authorized agent, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists or opposes the execution of any order of the provisions of this Code or any order of the Director of the Department of Building Inspection made pursuant to this Code, will be subject to the placement of a special assessment lien in the amount of the fee owed or delinquent, plus accrued interest, against the real property regulated under this chapter, for failure to pay items, including but not limited to: (1) required annual apartment/hotel license fees per Section 302 of this Code; (2) reinspection fees; and, (3) assessment of costs, pursuant to Sections 102A, 108A and 110A of the San Francisco Building Code.
	(f)	Annual Report to Board of Supervisors.
		(1)	Six months from the effective date of this ordinance, the Director of the Department of Building Inspection shall provide the Board of Supervisors with information on the implementation of this Section.
		(2)	Each annual report of the Department of Building Inspection transmitted to the Board of Supervisors shall contain a statistical report detailing the number of citations issued during the preceding year, correlated with a general description of the types of violations for which they were issued.
	(g)	Partial Appropriation of Fines Collected. Up to 25 percent of the monies collected pursuant to Section 204(a), other than monies mandated by State law to be appropriated for specific purposes, shall be deposited directly to the Department of Building Inspection's Special Fund to partially offset the costs incurred by the Department of Building Inspection in issuing citations pursuant to this Section.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 123-93, App. 4/29/93; Ord. 355-93, App. 11/12/93; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 382-96, App. 10/3/96; Ord. 418-97, App. 10/31/97; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 205.  POSTED NOTICES, INTERFERENCE WITH.
	It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the posting of any notice provided for in this Code, or to tear down or mutilate any such notice so posted in or upon any building or premises by the Department of Building Inspection, or any other interested department or bureau.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 206.  RETROACTIVE PROVISIONS.
	The sections and subsections listed herein are retroactive and shall apply to and include existing buildings as defined in Section 401 of this Code:
	351 to 353 inclusive:
		Section 351. Report of Residential Building Record Required
		Section 352. Application for Report of Residential Building Record
		Section 353. Inspection of Residential Building and Fee Therefor
	501 to 505 inclusive:
		Section 501. Space and Occupancy Standards, General
		Section 502. Yards and Courts
		Section 503. Room Dimensions
		Section 504. Light and Ventilation
		Section 505. Sanitation
	601 to 603 inclusive:
		Section 601. Construction, Existing Apartment Houses and Hotels
		Section 602. Foundation Ventilation
		Section 603. Garages
	701 to 707 inclusive:
		Section 701. Heating and Ventilation
		Section 702. Fire Protective Devices and Facilities
		Section 703. Weather Protection
		Section 704. Roof Decks and Drying Platforms
		Section 705. Security; Purpose
		Section 706. Security; Standards
		Section 707. Garbage Receptacle Compartments
	709 to 712 inclusive:
		Section 709. Prohibited Uses
		Section 710. Paints or Volatile Liquids
		Section 711. Machine Shop, etc.
		Section 712. Identification of Utility Shutoff Devices
	801 to 803 inclusive:
		Section 801. Exits, Stairs and Occupant Load
		Section 802. Stairways and Exit Corridors
		Section 803. Basement Stairways
	805 to 808 inclusive:
		Section 805. Stairway to Roof
		Section 806. Stairway Enclosures
		Section 807. Smoke Barriers
		Section 808. Elevator Enclosures
	901 to 912 inclusive:
		Section 901. Fire Alarms
		Section 902. Fire Alarm Systems
		Section 903. Wet Standpipes
		Section 904. Automatic Sprinkler System
		Section 905. Portable Fire Extinguishers
		Section 906. Automatic Sprinklers
		Section 907. Location of Equipment
		Section 908. Maintenance and Repair
		Section 909. Smoke Detection and Alarm Systems
		Section 910. Heat Detectors
		Section 911. Single-Station Smoke Detector with Alarm Required
		Section 912. Self-Closing Doors
	1001: Section 1001. Substandard Buildings, Definitions
	1002: Section 1002(f)
	1002: Section 1002. Apartment House/Hotel License
	1103: Section 1103. Records
	1201 to 1212 inclusive:
		Section 1201. Residential Energy Conservation, Title
		Section 1202. Findings
		Section 1203. Intent
		Section 1204. Definitions
		Section 1205. Energy Inspections
		Section 1206. Qualified Energy Inspectors
		Section 1207. Proof of Compliance with Minimum Energy Conservation Measures
		Section 1208. Exemptions and Postponement
		Section 1209. Limitation of Expenditure
		Section 1210. Energy Conservation Requirements Upon Major Improvement, etc.
		Section 1211. Energy Inspection Requirement at Transfer of Title
		Section 1212. Required Energy Conservation Measures
	1214 to 1219 inclusive:
		Section 1214. Amortization in Rental Property
		Section 1215. Civil Remedies
		Section 1216. Fees
		Section 1217. Rules
		Section 1218. Interim Rules
		Section 1219. Ordinance Review
	12A01 to 12A13 inclusive:
		Section 12A01. Title
		Section 12A02. Findings
		Section 12A03. Intent
		Section 12A04. Definitions
		Section 12A05. Water Conservation Inspections
		Section 12A06. Proof of Compliance with Minimum Water Conservation Measures
		Section 12A07. Postponement of Requirements
		Section 12A08. Water Conservation Inspection Requirements Upon Major Improvements, etc.
		Section 12A09. Water Conservation Inspection Requirements at Transfer of Title
		Section 12A10. Required Water Conservation Measures
		Section 12A11. Appeal from Results of a Water Conservation Inspection
		Section 12A12. Civil Remedies
		Section 12A13. Severability
	1301 to 1311 inclusive:
		Section 1301. Painting
		Section 1302. Courts and Shafts
		Section 1303. Wallpaper
		Section 1304. Garbage Receptacles
		Section 1305. Garbage Receptacle Compartment
		Section 1306. Sanitation
		Section 1307. Deposit of Rubbish, etc.
		Section 1308. Bedding
		Section 1309. Towels
		Section 1310. Dangerous Articles
		Section 1311. Caretaker
	Exceptions to the provisions of Sections 904(a)(2) and 911 of this Code may be made with respect to any Qualified Historical Building or Structure (as defined in California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 2, Section 218). For such buildings and structures, the Director and the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety may provide for a suitable system of fire prevention and life safety as an alternative to the provisions of Sections 904(a)(2) and 911.
	For purposes of Sections 904(a)(2), 911 and 912, an "existing hotel" shall be deemed to be any hotel as to which a building permit application for construction of the hotel was approved as of the date of the adoption of the ordinance which adds Sections 904(a)(2) and 912 to this Code. All such existing hotels shall be conformed to the requirements of Sections 904(a)(2), 911 and 912 within three years from the date of the adoption of the ordinance which adds Sections 904(a)(2), 911 and 912 to this Code. As to such existing hotels only, the period for compliance with the requirements of Sections 904(a)(2), 911 and 912 may be extended upon showing of good cause for such extension if a systematic and progressive plan of compliance is submitted to the Director and to the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety. Such extension shall not exceed two years from the date of approval of such plan, and any plan of compliance submitted pursuant to this subdivision shall be submitted and approved within three years from the date of the adoption of the ordinance which adds Sections 904(a)(2) and 912 to this Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 381-90, App. 10/24/90; Ord. 160-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009; Ord. 29-13, App. 2/26/2013, Eff. 3/26/2013)
SEC. 207.  ASSUMING RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE MOBILE HOMES PARK ACT.
	The City and County of San Francisco hereby assumes responsibility for the enforcement of the Health and Safety Code, Division 13, Part 2.1 (Mobile Homes Park Act) and related regulations of Title 25, California Code of Regulations within the City and County of San Francisco.
	The Department of Building Inspection is hereby designated as the enforcing agency.
	The fees as required to be charged by Chapter 5, Title 25, California Administrative Code shall be those collected by the City and County of San Francisco for the enforcement of such regulations.
	The effective date of enforcement by the City and County of San Francisco shall be November 1, 1977.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
Chapter 3
PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
Sec. 301.General.Sec. 302.Fees.Sec. 303.Inspection.
SEC. 301.  GENERAL.
	For permits to do any work, see Section 106A of the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 302.  FEES.
	(a)	One- and Two-Family Code Enforcement Fees. Every property owner of a one or two-family dwelling rental unit, as defined by Chapter 37, Section 37.2(r) of the Administrative Code and Section 401 of this Code, shall pay an annual fee to defray the cost of complaint response, outreach, inspections, and other code enforcement services pertaining to blight, and substandard conditions as defined by Section 1001 and 1002 of this Code. The Tax Collector shall bill this annual Fee as a special assessment lien on the property tax bill mailed to all owners of one- and two-family dwelling rental units. All laws pertaining to the collection and enforcement of ad valorem property taxes, including the date such fees are due and payable, shall apply to the collection and enforcement of this Fee. The revenue collected by the Tax Collector shall be used exclusively to defray the costs incurred in the education, outreach, and enforcement of this Code. See schedule. See Building Code, Chapter 1A, Schedule 1A-P (Residential and Code Enforcement License Fees) for the applicable fees.
	(b)	Apartment House License Fees. Every individual entity which owns or operates an apartment house, including a residential condominium, as defined by Section 401 of this Code, shall pay an annual license fee. The Tax Collector shall bill the annual Apartment House License Fee as a special assessment lien on the property tax bill mailed to all owners and operators of apartment houses, as defined by this Code. All laws pertaining to the collection and enforcement of ad valorem property taxes, including the date such fees are due and payable, shall apply to the collection and enforcement of the Apartment House License Fee.
		The license fee will be used to defray the cost of health and safety inspection and regulation of the apartment houses by the Department of Building Inspection. This inspection will be made by the Department of Building Inspection on a periodic basis as determined by the Director of the Department of Building Inspection. However an inspection shall be made not less than once every five years. Additional inspections within any year may be required, including responding to occupant complaints. See Building Code, Chapter 1A, Schedule 1A-P. (Residential and Code Enforcement and License Fees) for the applicable fees.
	(c)	Hotel License Fees. Every individual entity which owns or operates a hotel, shall pay an annual license fee. The Tax Collector shall bill the annual Hotel License Fee as a special assessment lien on the property tax bill mailed to all owners and operators of hotels, as defined by this Code. All laws pertaining to the collection and enforcement of ad valorem property taxes, including the date such fees are due and payable, shall apply to the collection and enforcement of the Hotel License Fee.
		The license fee will be used to defray the cost of health and safety inspection and regulation of the hotels by the Department of Building Inspection. This inspection will be made by the Department of Building Inspection on a periodic basis as determined by the Director of the Department of Building Inspection. However an inspection shall be made not less than every five years. Additional inspections within any year may be required including responding to occupant complaints. See Building Code, Chapter 1A, Schedule 1A-P. (Residential and Code Enforcement and License Fees) for the applicable fees.
	(d)	Responsibility for Payment of Fee. Only one license fee is required to be paid per rental dwelling unit, apartment, or hotel subject to this Section, consistent with the timelines established herein. In the event that more than one entity receives notice of the obligation for the fee, responsibility for payment of the fee in its entirety is a matter to be resolved by the individual entities.
	(e)	Special Assessment Lien. Any person or entity, which fails to pay the required license fees as described in this Section will be subject to the placement of a special assessment lien in the amount of the fee owed or delinquent, plus accrued interest, against the real property regulated under this chapter pursuant to the procedure set forth in Chapter 10, Article XX of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 129-93, App. 5/7/93; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 382-96, App. 10/3/96; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; 6-26-2009 by Ord. No. 105-09, Eff. 7-27-2009)
SEC. 303.  INSPECTION.
	(a)	Inspection by City. Routine Inspections. All apartment houses and hotels shall be subject to periodic health and safety inspections within the time frames specified by Section 302 of this code. These inspections shall be performed throughout the common areas of the building including but not limited to building lobbies, exit corridors, balconies, common hallways, exit stairs, courtyards, lightwells, garages, garbage rooms or area, boiler rooms, laundry rooms, utility rooms housing electrical or gas service, storage rooms/areas, basements, maids closets, common linen closets, community kitchens, common bathrooms, roof areas, the habitable room housing a temperature-sensing device as required by Section 701(c) of this code, or any other portion of the building used for, or intended for residential use, or accessory to residential use.
		Inspections may be performed throughout dwelling units, guest rooms, guest room suites, or portion of a building used for or intended for residential use, or accessory to residential use, upon receipt of occupant complaints, or if the Director of the Department of Building Inspection with reasonable discretion finds that such an inspection is necessary to determine if an unsafe or substandard condition exists as defined by this code.
	(b)	Inspection and Entry by Owner. The owner, or the authorized agent of any owner of any building or premises may enter, during normal business hours, the building or premises whenever necessary to carry out any instructions or perform any work required to be done by this Code, pursuant to California Civil Code Section 1954.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
Chapter 3.5
REPORT OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDING RECORD
Sec. 351.Report.Sec. 352.Application.Sec. 353.Inspection of Residential Building and Fee Therefor.
SEC. 351.  REPORT.
	(a)	Report of Residential Building Record Required. Prior to the sale or exchange of any residential building, except the first sale or exchange, if this occurs within one year of the date of the Certificate of Final Completion of the construction of the building, the owner thereof, or their authorized agent, shall obtain from the Department of Building Inspection, a Report of Residential Building Record. Said report shall set forth the existing authorized occupancy or use of said residential building and the other information prescribed in Section 351(c) herein below.
		Such Report of Residential Building Record shall be delivered by the owner, or the authorized agent of said owner, to the buyer or transferee of said residential building prior to the consummation of the sale or exchange thereof, and the buyer shall file with the Department of Building Inspection, a receipt therefor, on a form furnished by said Department.
		It shall be unlawful for the owner of such residential building to sell or exchange same without first having obtained and delivered to the buyer the Report of Residential Building Record herein provided for.
		In addition to the foregoing, any person licensed by the State of California to sell property shall provide upon request, to any prospective buyer a copy of the Report of Residential Building Record issued in the manner herein above required for any residential property which the real estate broker has listed for sale.
	(b)	Residential Building Defined. A residential building, as used in this chapter, is a building or a portion thereof containing one or more dwelling units but not including hotels containing 30 or more guest rooms, or motels.
	(c)	Contents of Report of Residential Building Record. The Department of Building Inspection shall, upon application in the manner hereinafter provided, issue a Report of Residential Building Record to the owner which shall contain, in respect to said residential building, the following information, insofar as ascertainable from City records:
		(1)	(a)	Present authorized occupancy or use.
			(b)	Is this building classified as a residential condominium?
				Yes__________No__________
			(c)	Does this building contain any Residential Hotel Guest Rooms as defined in Chapter 41, San Francisco Administrative Code?
				Yes__________No__________
		(2)	Zoning district in which located.
		(3)	Building Code Occupancy Classification.
		(4)	Do records of the Planning Department reveal an expiration date for any nonconforming use of this property?
			Yes__________No__________
			If yes, what date? ______________
		(5)	Building construction date.
		(6)	Original occupancy or use.
		(7)	Construction, conversion, or alteration permits issued, if any.
		(8)	(a)	Is there an active Franchise Tax Board Referral on file?
				Yes__________No__________
			(b)	Is this property currently under abatement proceedings for code violations?
				Yes__________No__________
		(9)	Number of residential structures on property.
		(10)	(a)	Has an energy inspection been completed?
				Yes__________No__________
			(b)	If yes, has a proof of compliance been issued?
				Yes__________No__________
	On the face of the report shall appear the following note in bold 10-point type:
	Beware. This report describes the current legal use of this property as compiled from records of City Departments. There has been no physical examination of the property itself. This record contains no history of any plumbing or electrical permits. The report makes no representation that the property is in compliance with the law. Any occupancy or use of the property other than that listed as authorized in this report may be illegal and subject to removal or abatement, and should be reviewed with the Planning Department and the Department of Building Inspection. Errors or omissions in this report shall not bind or stop the City from enforcing any and all building and zoning codes against the seller, buyer and any subsequent owner. The preparation or delivery of this report shall not impose any liability on the City for any errors or omissions contained in said report, nor shall the City bear any liability not otherwise imposed by law.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 165-95, App. 5/19/95; Ord. 350-95, app. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 352.  APPLICATION.
	(a)	Application for Report of Residential Building Record. Any owner, or their authorized agent required by Section 351 herein above to obtain a Report of Residential Building Record, shall make written application therefor to the Department of Building Inspection, on forms provided by the said department, and such application shall contain the following information:
		(1)	Name and address of owner.
		(2)	Name and address of applicant if other than owner.
		(3)	Location of existing residential building for which the report is sought.
	(b)	Expiration Date of Report of Residential Building Record. Any Report of Residential Building Record issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be effective for a period of one year from the date of issuance, and shall contain therein the dates of issuance and expiration.
	(c)	Report of Residential Record. The fee for supplying a Report of Residential Building Record shall be payable in advance to the Central Permit Bureau. See Building Code Chapter 1A, Schedule 1A-G.5 (Report of Residential Building Records) for applicable fees.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 353.  INSPECTION OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDING AND FEE THEREFOR.
	If the owner or the owner's agent desires a physical inspection of the property, the Department shall make an inspection of the property and shall furnish to the owner or the owner's agent a list of the violations, if any, of the law disclosed by the inspection. Fees for this service are payable in advance at the Central Permit Bureau. See Building Code Chapter 1A, Schedule 1A-G.7 (Survey of Residential Building) for the applicable fee.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
Chapter 4
DEFINITIONS
Sec. 400.General.Sec. 401.Definitions.
SEC. 400.  GENERAL.
	(a)	General. For the purposes of this Code, certain words and terms used herein are defined as set forth in this and the following sections of this chapter. Where terms are not defined, they shall have their ordinary accepted meanings within the context with which they are used. Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged, latest edition, shall be considered as providing ordinary accepted meanings. All words used in the present tense shall include the future. All words in the plural number shall include the singular and all words in the singular number shall include the plural unless the natural construction of the wording indicated otherwise. The word "shall" is mandatory and not permissive. For definitions not indicated herein, see Chapter 2 of the Building Code.
	(b)	Administrative. Whenever any one of the following terms is used it shall mean the corresponding officer, department, board or commission, or agency or authority of the City and County of San Francisco, State of California, hereinafter referred to as the "City": Board of Supervisors, Department of Building Inspection, Police Department and Fire Department. In each case the term shall be deemed to include an employee of any such office or department of the City who is lawfully authorized to perform any duty or exercise any power as their or its representative or agent.
	Whenever the words "dwelling," "dwelling unit," "apartment," "apartment house," "hotel," "guest room," "guest room suite," "premises" or "building" are used in this Code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any portion thereof."
	APPROVED. "Approved," when used in connection with any material, type of construction or appliance means meeting the approval of the Director as a result of investigation and tests conducted by an approved agency, or by reason of accepted principles or tests by national authorities, technical, health or scientific organizations or agencies.
	APPROVED AGENCY. "Approved agency" means an established and recognized agency regularly engaged in conducting tests or furnishing inspection services, and approved by the Director.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 320-99, App. 11/22/99; Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 401.  DEFINITIONS.
	Apartment. "Apartment" means a dwelling unit as defined in this Code.
	Apartment House. "Apartment house" is any building or portion thereof which contains three or more dwelling units and, for the purpose of this Code, includes residential condominiums.
	Basement. "Basement" is any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a basement unless such floor level qualifies as a first story as defined herein.
	Bathroom. A room containing a bathtub, tub or shower compartment; water closet and lavatory or other similar approved facilities provided immediately adjacent thereto.
	Bay Window. A rectangular, curved or polygonal window, projecting beyond the exterior wall of the building.
	Building. "Building" shall mean any building or structure, or portion thereof, which is used, designed or intended for residential use, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes or any combination thereof.
	Building Code. The San Francisco Building Code, Part II, Chapter I, of the San Francisco Municipal Code.
	Building (Existing). A building erected prior to the adoption of this Code, or one for which a legal building permit and a "Certificate of Final Completion" has been issued.
	Building Official. "Building Official" is the Director of the Department of Building Inspection, City and County of San Francisco. The Director is the authorized representative in the enforcement of this Code.
	Ceiling Height. The distance between the finished floor and the finished ceiling.
	City. The City and County of San Francisco.
	Congregate Residence. "Congregate Residence" is any building or portion thereof which contains facilities for living, sleeping and sanitation, as required by this Code, and may include facilities for eating and cooking, for occupancy by other than a family. A congregate residence may be a shelter, convent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity or sorority house but does not include jails, hospitals, nursing homes, hotels, or lodging houses.
	Deterioration. The condition of a building or a portion of a building characterized by holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, cracking, peeling, rusting, or other evidence of physical decay or neglect, or lack of maintenance, or excessive use.
	Director of the Department of Building Inspection. The Director of the Department of Building Inspection, City and County of San Francisco, sometimes referred to as the Director, who shall herein have charge and control of all matters set forth in this Code.
	Dormitory. A room occupied by more than two guests.
	Dwelling. Any building or portion thereof which contains not more than two dwelling units.
	Dwelling Unit. A "dwelling unit" is any building or portion thereof which contains living facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation as required by the Code, for not more than one family.
	Electrical Code. The San Francisco Electrical Code, Part II, Chapter III of the San Francisco Municipal Code.
	Equivalent Public Way. "Equivalent public way" is approved space on private property complying with all of the following:
		(1)	Connects with boundary street or streets.
		(2)	Is a least 40 feet in width, open to the sky, when the structures served by the equivalent public way are protected throughout with an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system installed in conformance with Chapter 9 of the Building Code.
		(3)	Is accessible to Fire Department vehicles and equipment.
		(4)	Access is recorded as being irrevocable for the life of the structure for which access is required, stating this is a requirement of the City.
	Exit. See Section 1002 of the Building Code.
	Family. One or more persons related or unrelated, living together as a single integrated household in a dwelling unit.
	Fire Code. The San Francisco Fire Code Part II, Chapter IV, of the San Francisco Municipal Code.
	Fire Hazard or Nuisance. "Fire hazard" shall mean anything or the lack of any equipment or any act, which increases or may cause an increase of the hazard or menace to life or property from fire, explosion or panic to a greater degree than that customarily recognized as normal by persons in the public service of preventing, suppressing or extinguishing fire; or which may obstruct, delay or hinder the saving of life from fire, explosion or panic or may have become the cause of any obstruction, delay, suppression or hindrance, to the prevention or extinguishment of fire.
	Garage. A building or portion thereof in which a motor vehicle containing flammable or combustible liquids or gas in its tank is stored, repaired or kept.
	Garage, Private. A building or a portion of a building, not more than 1,000 square feet in area, in which only motor vehicles used by the tenants of the building or buildings on the premises are stored or kept.
	Guest Room. A room occupied, or intended, arranged or designed for occupation by one or more guests. Every 100 square feet of superficial floor area in a dormitory is a guest room. A guest is any person paying in money, goods or services for the use of a sleeping facility. Guest rooms with cooking shall have approved kitchen units as set forth in Section 507 of this Code.
	Guest Room Suite. A contiguous group of two or more habitable rooms, not part of a dwelling unit, having one entry door. Each habitable room within a guest room suite shall individually conform to the requirements set forth in Section 503(b) of this Code.
	Habitable Space (Room). Any room or space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility space areas are not considered habitable space.
	Handrail. A rail capable of being readily grasped by the hand to provide support on ramps or stairs.
	Height of Building. Height of building shall be determined in accordance with Chapter 2 of the Building Code.
	Hotel. "Hotel" is any building containing six or more guest rooms, or guest room suites, intended or designed to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
	Guest rooms with cooking facilities as defined in Section 507 of this Code located therein are permitted. Hotel does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention home or other institution in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
	Housekeeping Room/Unit with Cooking Facilities. Housekeeping unit or room containing one guestroom with electric cooking facilities, in existence and legalized by permit prior to 1969 in a residential building built before 1960.
	Kitchen. Any room used, or intended or designed to be used, for cooking, preserving and preparing food.
	Kitchen, Community. See Section 507 of this Code.
	Life Hazard. "Life hazard" is any act, condition, or omission or lack of construction, equipment, material or maintenance, that increases or may cause an increase in the menace to life to occupants within a building or structure from fire, explosion, earthquake, panic or structural failure above the level of safety established in this Code.
	Lodging House. "Lodging house" is any building or portion thereof, containing not more than five guest rooms where rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise.
	Main Entrance or Exit. "Main entrance or exit" is that entrance from a street, alley or other open space serving as a way of approach to a building to which is apportioned the greater aggregate of the required outside exit width.
	Mechanical Code. The San Francisco Mechanical Code Part II, Chapter XIV, of the San Francisco Municipal Code.
	Mechanical Ventilation. The ventilation of any area or space by mechanical means.
	Mold and Mildew. Any visible or otherwise demonstrable growth of microscopic organisms or fungi (mold or mildew) that feeds on damp conditions in the interior of a residential building, sufficiently chronic or severe to cause a health hazard or damage a residential structure or part thereof, excluding the presence of mold or mildew which is minor in nature caused by inappropriate housekeeping practices or the improper use of natural or mechanical ventilation.
	Motel. "Motel" shall mean "hotel" as defined in this Code.
	Municipal Code. The Municipal Code of the City and County of San Francisco.
	Nuisance. The following shall be defined as nuisances:
		(1)	Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence;
		(2)	Any attractive nuisance which may prove detrimental to children, whether in a building or on the premises of a building. This includes open wells, abandoned basements, or excavations; abandoned iceboxes, refrigerators and motor vehicles, or any structurally unsound fences or structures, or lumber, trash, fences, debris, or vegetation which may prove a hazard for inquisitive minors;
		(3)	Whatever is dangerous to human life or is detrimental to health;
		(4)	Overcrowding a room with occupants;
		(5)	Insufficient ventilation or illumination;
		(6)	Inadequate or insanitary sewage or plumbing facilities;
		(7)	Insanitary conditions or anything offensive to the senses or dangerous to health;
		(8)	Whatever renders air, food or drink unwholesome or detrimental to the health of human beings;
		(9)	Fire hazard;
		(10)	Substandard building;
		(11)	Any "apartment," "dwelling unit," "habitable space" or "building" as defined in this Code, which is the subject of a final hazard reduction order under Section 1628 of the San Francisco Health Code, or an emergency order under Section 1630 of the San Francisco Health Code;
		(12)	Mold and mildew as defined by this chapter.
	Openable Window Area. That portion of a window opening left clear and unobstructed when the window is in an open position.
	Overcrowding. Use of occupancy of a room, dwelling unit, guest room or guestroom suite in excess of that permitted by this Code.
	Owner. The owner or owners of the freehold of the premises or a lesser estate therein, a vendee in possession, or the lessee or joint lessees of the whole thereof.
	Pantry. A space accessible to a dining room or kitchen for the storage of food, dishes or utensils.
	Partition. An interior vertical separation running from floor to ceiling and dividing one part of an enclosed area from another.
	Person. Any person, firm, association, organization, partnership, business trust, corporation, company, municipal, state or federal agency, executors, administrators, successors, assigns or agents or their heirs.
	Plumbing Code. The San Francisco Plumbing Code Part II, Chapter VII, of the San Francisco Municipal Code.
	Porch. A porch is a projection of appendage on the exterior of a building, which has a roof the ceiling height of which cannot be less than seven feet. Where one balcony is placed one story above another balcony, the balconies shall be considered as porches.
	Premises. Land including improvements or appurtenances or any part thereof.
	Repairs. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building for the purpose of its maintenance.
	Required. As required in this Code.
	Roof Structure. "Roof structure" is any building or structure erected upon the roof of a building, designed to protect machinery or mechanical devices located on such roof and not used for any of the occupancies set forth in Chapter 3 of the Building Code.
	Rooming House. Same as "lodging house."
	Service Room. "Service room" shall mean any room used for storage, bath or utility purposes, and not included in the definition of "habitable rooms."
	Shaft. Any shaft used for air, light or ventilation, or for vertical openings within a building. A vent shaft is one used solely to ventilate a water-closet compartment, bathroom, toilet, utility room or other service room.
	Stairwell. A volume formed by the enclosure of any stair, or that would have been formed if the stairs were enclosed.
	Story. "Story" is that portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level directly above a basement or unused under-floor space is more than six feet above grade as defined herein for more than 50 percent of the total perimeter or is more than 12 feet above grade as defined herein at any point, such basement or unused under-floor space shall be considered a story.
	Story, first, is the lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story, as defined herein, except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a first story, provided such floor is not more than four feet below grade, as defined herein, for more than 50 percent of the total perimeter, or more than eight feet below grade, as defined herein, at any point.
	Substandard Building. See Chapter 10 of this Code.
	Superficial Floor Area. "Superficial floor area" is the net floor area within the enclosing walls of the room in which the ceiling height is not less than seven feet six inches, excluding built-in equipment such as wardrobes, cabinets, kitchen units, or fixtures which are not readily removable.
	Toilet Room. A room containing one or more water closets or urinals.
	Unsafe Building. See Section 102A of the Building Code.
	Unusable Space. A space or area which is not readily accessible and which has not more than three feet vertical clearance at any point.
	Use. "Use" shall mean as used or designed or intended to be used.
	Ventilating Area. The net area of an opening for the unobstructed passage of air. An approved screen is not considered as obstructing the area provided that the required ventilating area is maintained.
	Water Closet Compartment. Same as "toilet room."
	Weathering. Deterioration, decay or damage caused by exposure to the elements.
	Window. "Window" shall mean a glazed opening, including glazed doors, which open upon a yard, court, or recess from a court, or a vent shaft open and unobstructed to the sky. Clerestory windows shall be included in this definition.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
Chapter 5
SPACE AND OCCUPANCY STANDARDS
Sec. 501.General.Sec. 502.Yards and Courts.Sec. 503.Room Dimensions.Sec. 504.Light and Ventilation.Sec. 505.Sanitation.Sec. 506.Habitable Basement Rooms.Sec. 507.Cooking Facilities.
SEC. 501.  GENERAL.
	See Chapter 1 of this Code and Chapter 3, Section 310 of the Building Code. Buildings erected, altered or converted prior to July 26, 1958, shall comply with the minimum requirements as set forth in Sections 501 through 507 of this Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 502.  YARDS AND COURTS.
	See Chapter 1 of this Code and Section 1206 of the Building Code and the City Planning Code.
	Yards, courts, vent shafts, and required unoccupied space for buildings constructed, converted or altered prior to July 26, 1958, need not be provided or increased in size if the habitable rooms and required windows opening thereon were installed under permit, or would have been permitted under the codes in effect at the time installed.
(Amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 503.  ROOM DIMENSIONS.
	(a)	Ceiling Heights. Unless legally constructed as such, no habitable room shall have a ceiling height less than seven feet six inches. Any room, other than a habitable room, shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet.
	(b)	Superficial Floor Area. Every dwelling unit and congregate residence shall have at least one room which shall have not less than 120 square feet of superficial floor area. Every room which is used for both cooking and living or both living and sleeping purposes shall have not less than 144 square feet of superficial floor area. Every room used for sleeping purposes shall have not less than 70 square feet of superficial floor area. When more than two persons occupy a room used for sleeping purposes the required superficial floor area shall be increased at the rate of 50 square feet for each occupant in excess of two. Guest rooms with cooking shall contain the combined required superficial areas of a sleeping and a kitchen, but not less than 144 square feet. Other habitable rooms shall be not less than 70 square feet.
		Notwithstanding any provision of this Section, children under the age of six shall not be counted for purposes of determining whether a family with minor children complies with the provisions of this Code.
	(c)	Width. No habitable room except a kitchen shall be less than seven feet in width. Rooms used as guest rooms with cooking shall have a 10-foot minimum width.
	(d)	Housing Access. To promote access to housing by families, it shall be unlawful for the owner, lessor, lessee, sublessee, real estate broker, assignee, or other person having the rights of ownership, the right of possession, or other right to rent or lease any dwelling unit or any agent or employee of such person to refuse to rent or lease, or otherwise deny, a dwelling unit to a family, as defined in Section 401 of this Code, on the basis of the actual or potential number of occupants if the total number of persons occupying a room for sleeping purposes does not violate the minimum superficial floor area standards prescribed in Subsection (b) of this Section.
	(e)	Remedies. A violation of Subsection (d) of this Section shall be subject to the civil remedies specified in Section 204(e) of this Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 123-93, App. 4/29/93; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 504.  LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
	General. For the purpose of determining the light or ventilation required by this Section, any room may be considered as a portion of an adjoining room when one-half of the area of the common wall is open and unobstructed and provides an opening of not less than one-tenth of the floor area of the interior room or 25 square feet, whichever is greater.
	Exterior openings for natural light or ventilation required by this Section shall open directly onto a public way or a yard or court located on the same lot as the building.
	EXCEPTIONS:
		1.	Required windows may open into a roof porch where the porch:
			a.	Abuts a public way, yard or court; and
			b.	Has a ceiling height of not less than seven feet; and
			c.	Has a longer side at least 65 percent open and unobstructed.
		2.	Skylights.
	(a)	Natural Light and Ventilation – Habitable Room. Guest rooms and habitable rooms within a dwelling unit or congregate residence shall have an aggregate window area of not less than one-twelfth of the floor area or 10 square feet, whichever is greater. In one-family and two-family dwellings not more than one story and basement in height, a skylight is permitted over a required court or side yard if the skylight ventilating area equals the minimum required window area for rooms ventilated by such court and where another source of ventilation to the court exists or is provided, e.g., a tunnel entrance. In no case shall a skylight be permitted when a sleeping room opens into an enclosed court or side yard.
		Openable Window Area. In guest rooms and habitable rooms within a dwelling unit or congregate residence one-half of the required window area in all rooms and hallways shall be openable.
		Clerestory windows are permitted, provided they meet the requirements for ventilation as set forth in this Code.
	(b)	Reserved.
	(c)	Mechanical Ventilation. An approved system of mechanical ventilation or air conditioning may be used in lieu of openable exterior windows. Such system shall provide not less than two air changes per hour, except that in bathrooms, containing a bathtub, shower or combination thereof, laundry rooms and similar rooms such system shall provide five air changes per hour. A minimum of 15 cubic feet per occupant of the air supply shall be taken from the outside per Section 1202.5 of the Building Code. The point of discharge of exhaust air shall be at least three feet from any opening into the building.
		Bathrooms that contain only a water closet, lavatory or combination thereof and similar rooms may be ventilated with an approved mechanical recirculating fan or similar device designed to remove odors from the air.
		In single-family dwellings, separate switches for the light and ventilation are permissible.
		Any person in charge of a building in which an exhaust fan system of ventilation is installed and used pursuant to this chapter, who fails, neglects or refuses to operate and maintain the system in good order and repair so that the air in each for which it is provided is not completely changed within the specie intervals, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
	(d)	Exit Corridors. Every exit corridor in all apartment houses or hotels shall be ventilated as follows:
		(1)	Windows Required. In an apartment house or hotel, every exit corridor shall have at least one window unless it is lighted and ventilated by a skylight, a ventilated connecting hallway, or a mechanical ventilation system pursuant to the provisions of this Section.
		(2)	Window Area and Location. Each required window shall be 10 square feet in area, at least 50 percent of which shall be openable.
		(3)	Existing transoms in corridor walls shall be removed and the openings covered or closed with incombustible materials fastened so as to prevent the opening of the transoms. A transom is defined as a window above a door or any other window in a hallway, corridor or passageway, other than exterior windows.
		(4)	Doors opening to corridors from guest rooms or dwelling units shall be maintained in a normally closed position except when used for entrance or egress to the room or dwelling unit.
		(5)	Skylight Permitted. Skylights shall be permitted in lieu of the required windows in exit corridors in the topmost story of apartment houses and hotels.
		(6)	Skylight Area and Location.
			(i)	Each skylight shall have an effective horizontal area of glass of at least eight square feet.
			(ii)	Each skylight shall be so arranged that its entire ventilating area may be readily opened, or its ventilators may be fixed permanently in an open position providing not less than 400 square inches of ventilating area.
		(7)	Mechanical Ventilation. An exit corridor of an apartment house or hotel may, in lieu of any window, be:
			(i)	Lighted and ventilated by a connecting exit corridor equipped with a window or skylight meeting the requirements of this chapter; or
			(ii)	Ventilated by an approved mechanical system of ventilation designed and operated to produce not less than two complete changes of air per hour.
		(8)	Stairway Ventilation.
			(i)	Each enclosed stairway shall be vented at the top by means of a skylight or other approved means of ventilation. If by other approved means, the net ventilating area shall be not less than five percent of the cross-sectional area of the stairwell.
			(ii)	Construction of skylights shall conform to the Building Code.
	(e)	Electrical Convenience Outlets. Every habitable room shall have at least one electrical convenience outlet and every kitchen shall have at least two electrical convenience outlets; or in a kitchen in which all major appliances such as range, refrigerator, stove, oven, disposal unit and/or dishwasher are built into the wall or cabinets of said kitchen, or in which there is no major electrical appliance or in which the major appliance is operated from a central unit in the building, one electrical convenience outlet shall be furnished for each 12 feet of continuous counter and for each separate counter area. Ceiling and wall lighting fixture outlets shall not be included in the required number of the required outlets.
		Rooms with running water shall require wall switches for control of the lighting outlets.
		All new outlets, fixtures and wiring shall comply with the Electrical Code.
	(f)	Dormitories – Capacity. No dormitory shall contain sleeping accommodations for more than 15 persons, nor shall any dormitory be so overcrowded as to be inconsistent with the requirement of this chapter for rooms used for sleeping purposes, or for the amount of sleeping room floor area per occupant.
		The bed frames shall be made of hard, smooth, incombustible, nonabsorbent material; the beds to be arranged as follows:
		(1)	Not less than three feet of horizontal space between beds.
		(2)	Not less than one foot of clear space between the floor of the dormitory and the underside of the lower bed.
	(g)	Artificial Light. In every apartment house and in every hotel there shall be installed artificial light sufficient in volume to illuminate properly every exit corridor, passageway, public stairway, fire escape egress, elevator, public water closet compartment, or toilet room to prevent safety hazard.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 160-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 136-05, App. 6/28/2005; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 505.  SANITATION.
	(a)	Dwelling Units, Lodging Houses and Congregate Residences. Dwelling unit, lodging houses and congregate residence shall be provided with a water-closet, a lavatory, and a bathtub or shower, within the unit, except that one facility for the exclusive use of a single dwelling unit may be situated off the exit corridor on the same floor.
	(b)	Hotels. Hotel guestrooms shall be provided with a water-closet, a lavatory, and a bathtub or shower, within the guest room or said facilities may be situated off the exit corridor on the same floor pursuant to the table indicated below.
		The following table will be used in determining the minimum number of public sanitary facilities required per floor when guest rooms do not contain the requisite sanitary facilities:
Total Number of Public Sanitary Facilities Required for Guest Rooms (per Floor)
*Existing Number of Guest Rooms per FloorPublic Sanitary Facilities Required2 - 20221 - 30331 - 40441 - 50551 - 60661 - 707Etc.
	*NOTE:	Existing guest rooms with private sanitation facilities are not part of the guest room floor total for purposes of this requirement.
	(c)	Kitchen. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with a kitchen having adequate and clean facilities for the preparation, storage and preservation of food and every kitchen shall be provided with a kitchen sink constructed of approved nonabsorbent and impervious materials. No wooden sink or sink of similar absorbent material will be permitted. The space underneath the sink or wash tray shall be constructed so as to provide for its ventilation and inspection.
		All appliances provided by the owner shall be maintained in good working condition, excluding minor damage caused by inappropriate housekeeping practices or improper use.
		Community kitchens and kitchens in guest rooms shall comply with Section 507 of this Code.
	(d)	Fixtures.
		(1)	All plumbing fixtures shall be connected to a sanitary sewer. All plumbing fixtures shall be connected to an approved system of water supply and required fixtures shall be provided with hot and cold running water, except water closets shall be provided with cold water only.
		(2)	All plumbing fixtures shall be of an approved nonabsorbent material.
		(3)	For the purposes of this Section, water heated to a minimum temperature of 105 degrees Fahrenheit (41 degrees Centigrade) and a maximum of 120 degrees Fahrenheit (49 degrees Centigrade) at the tap shall be furnished to hotels and apartment houses.
		(4)	Each building shall provide four gallons of hot water storage capacity per guest room and eight gallons of hot water storage capacity per dwelling unit.
		(5)	Shower heads with no more than a three-gallon-per-minute flow shall be required. Showerheads of the ball-joint type that cannot easily be removed from the wall without structural alteration are exempt from this requirement.
	(e)	Water Closet Compartment. See Sections 1210 in the Building Code.
	(f)	Room Separations. No room used for the preparation of food shall be used for sleeping purposes except as otherwise provided in the Building Code. 
	Every kitchen or room in which food is stored or prepared shall be separated from any water closet or urinal compartment by at least a tight-fitting door.
	EXCEPTIONS:
		(1)	No change is required in apartment houses and hotels constructed prior to August 17, 1923.
		(2)	No change is required in dwellings constructed prior to January 1, 1929.
	Every partition in a building separating a kitchen with gas appliances from a room used for sleeping purposes shall extend to the ceiling or, if there is no ceiling, to the roof. An opening in the partition shall be provided with a door; provided, however, that a wall or partition an opening not exceeding three feet in width and seven feet in height may be permitted.
		Every water closet, bathtub or shower required by this Code shall be installed in a room which will afford privacy to the occupant.
	(g)	Installation and Maintenance. All sanitary facilities shall be installed and maintained in safe and sanitary condition and in accordance with all applicable laws.
		All plumbing fixtures, gas appliances and appurtenances thereto and their installation, maintenance, repair or alteration shall comply with the requirements of the Plumbing Code and all other applicable sections of the Municipal Code.
	(h)	Waterproofing – Basements. The walls and floor of every basement which is below the ground level shall be waterproofed and dampproof, and, whenever necessary in the opinion of the Director, the walls and floor shall be provided with approved waterproofing protection.
	(i)	Drainage. See Appendix Section J109 of the Building Code. One-family and two-family dwellings, other than those buildings constructed or converted to an R-3 Occupancy in which the Plumbing Code and/or Building Code in effect at the time of construction or alteration, require other provisions, are exempt from the drainage requirements for balconies and other projections, provided the drainage from the projection or balcony falls within the property lines and does not adversely affect adjacent property.
	(j)	Grab Bars. The water-closet, lavatory, and bathing facilities provided for guest rooms situated on the same floor and used in common are required to have grab bars that comply with Chapter 11B of the California Building Code; except that limitations within existing floor and room configurations will be taken into consideration regarding grab bar location and configuration. Building permits are required for installation, however all Department of Building Inspection fees required by Section 110A of the San Francisco Building Code will be waived for the facilities identified in the application if the applicant obtains the building permit within 60 days from the date this subsection (j) becomes effective.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 160-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 29-13, App. 2/26/2013, Eff. 3/26/2013)
SEC. 506.  HABITABLE BASEMENT ROOMS.
	All habitable basement rooms shall comply with Sections 503 and 504 of this Code.
(Added by Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 507.  COOKING FACILITIES.
	(a)	Community kitchens.
		(1)	General. Community kitchens provided for the use of occupants of guest rooms shall comply with this section.
			The number of guest rooms that may be served by a community kitchen shall be based on the following schedule:


Minimum Size of Community Kitchen (superficial area  in square feet) 1Number of Guest Rooms Served100 (9.29 m2)1 - 610 (0.929 m2)Per additional guest room
1 NOTE:  Superficial floor area is the net floor area within the enclosing walls of the room in which the ceiling height is not less than 7'6" (2.286 m) excluding built-in equipment such as wardrobes, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures which are not readily removable. Adjacent dining areas may be counted as additional superficial floor area.
		(2)	Cooking facilities. Only electric cooking appliances shall be used in community kitchens. Where they consist of electric plates, not more than two single or one double unit shall be permitted for each guest room served by the kitchen. Gas fuel appliances shall be prohibited.
			Electric plates shall be securely attached to a metal shelf or metal table and shall be located not closer than 3 inches (76.2 mm) from a wall surface. Where a wall of combustible construction is located closer than 24 inches (609.6 mm) to an electric plate, a wall guard consisting of sheet metal of not less than 28 gauge over 1/4-inch (6.35 mm) millboard, or other approved materials, shall be secured to the adjacent wall directly to the rear of the electric plates. Such protective wall guard shall extend a minimum of 24 inches (609.6 mm) above the cooking top for the full width of the appliance.
			Storage facilities. Countertops shall be of noncombustible construction. One noncombustible food storage cabinet with a minimum of 4 square feet (0.3716 m2) of shelf space shall be provided for each guest room served by the community kitchen. Countertops may be of combustible materials, provided the countertop is of an approved nonabsorbent material. Cooking appliances shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturers instructions. Countertops of combustible materials shall not be used to support electric plates.
			Cabinets located over the cooking area shall have a minimum of 30 inches (762 mm) clearance above the cooking top and shall have a noncombustible covering on the underside above the cooking area.
		(3)	Construction. Community kitchens shall be located in a room with a self-closing door. The minimum ceiling height shall be 7'6" (2.286 m). Floors shall be waterproofed as required in Section 2306.9 for floors. At least one metal kitchen sink drainboard shall be provided. Each sink shall be provided with hot and cold running water.
	(b)	Guest room cooking facilities. Cooking facilities located within guest rooms shall comply with Section 507(a).
(Added by Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
Chapter 6
STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 601.Construction, Existing Apartment Houses and Hotels.Sec. 602.Foundation Ventilation.Sec. 603.Garages.Sec. 604.Structural Maintenance.Sec. 605.Prohibition on Wooden Fixed Utility Ladders.
SEC. 601.  CONSTRUCTION, EXISTING APARTMENT HOUSES AND HOTELS.
	See Chapter 1A of this Code and Chapter 6 of the Building Code, which defines current types of building construction.
	Wood frame buildings three stories or more in height, constructed, altered or converted for use as an apartment house or hotel after September 1, 1947 shall be constructed of materials providing the entire building with a fire-resistive rating of one hour, as defined by the Building Code in effect at time of construction.
	Wood frame buildings constructed, altered or converted for use as an apartment house or hotel prior to September 1, 1947 need not be constructed of fire-resistive materials except for the public exit corridors, the soffits of stair and landings, and any new construction added since September 1, 1947, except that in buildings not over two stories in height public exit corridors and stairways may be of unrated materials if each apartment or guest room has direct access to a way of departure from within the unit or room without entering a common corridor. An approved automatic sprinkler system may be substituted for required fire-resistive construction for exit corridors of buildings altered or converted prior to July 26, 1958.
	Public exit corridor for this purpose is defined as those corridors which serve more than one apartment or guest room and which are not connected with any other exit corridor or stairway.
	Interior wood construction of Type III (III-A and III-B) and IV buildings shall conform to the same fire-resistive requirements as for Type V (V-A and V-B) buildings. Type III (III-A and III-B) buildings five or more stories in height shall be of fire-resistive construction if constructed, altered or converted for use as an apartment house or hotel after August 17, 1923.
	All wood shall be protected against termite damage and decay as provided in the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 602.  FOUNDATION VENTILATION.
	The space between the bottom of floor joists and the ground of any building (except space that is occupied by a basement or cellar) shall be provided with a sufficient number of ventilating openings through foundation walls or exterior walls to ensue ample ventilation. The minimum total area of ventilating opening shall be proportioned on the basis of 1½ square feet for each 50 linear feet, or major faction thereof, of exterior wall, so located as to provide adequate cross-ventilation.
	The air space shall be kept clean and free from any accumulation of rubbish, debris or filth.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 603.  GARAGES.
	(a)	No automobile or other motor vehicle shall occupy any portion of an apartment house or hotel except in a garage which meets the requirements of the Building Code and other provisions of the Municipal Code.
	(b)	Use. Private and public storage garages in apartment houses and hotels shall be used only for storage of automobiles.
	(c)	Separation. See Section 406.1 of the Building Code. When approved, existing separations in existing buildings may be acceptable.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 604.  STRUCTURAL MAINTENANCE.
	(a)	Affidavit Required. All wood and metal decks, balconies, landings, exit corridors, stairway systems, guardrails, handrails, fire escapes, or any parts thereof in weather-exposed areas of apartment buildings and hotels shall be inspected by a licensed general contractor, or a structural pest control licensee, or a licensed professional architect or engineer, verifying that the exit system, corridor, balcony, deck or any part thereof is in general safe condition, in adequate working order, and free from hazardous dry rot, fungus, deterioration, decay, or improper alteration. Property owners shall provide proof of compliance with this section by submitting an affidavit form (provided by the Department) signed by the responsible inspector to the Housing Inspection Services Division every five years. For purposes of this section, "weather-exposed areas" mean those areas which are not interior building areas. The affidavit process shall commence on January 1, 2004.
(Added by Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 605.  PROHIBITION ON WOODEN FIXED UTILITY LADDERS.
	Wooden Fixed Utility Ladders shall be prohibited on buildings which contain R-1, R-2, and R-3 Occupancies (hotels and apartment houses), as defined by Chapter 4 of this Code. "Fixed Utility Ladder" shall mean any ladder permanently attached to the exterior of a structure or building, but shall not include ladders required by the California Division of Occupational Safety and Health for workplace safety that have been installed with a proper permit, or ladders expressly authorized by the Department of Building Inspection for Building Code or Fire Code compliance purposes.
	Wooden Fixed Utility Ladders shall be removed or replaced with metal ladders that comply with applicable Building, Fire, and Housing Code requirements.
(Added by Ord. 255-08, App. 11/7/2008, Eff. 12/8/2009)
Chapter 7
MECHANICAL REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 701.Heating and Ventilation.Sec. 702.Reserved.Sec. 703.Weather Protection.Sec. 704.Roof Decks and Drying Platforms.Sec. 705.Security; Purpose.Sec. 706.Security; Standards.Sec. 707.Garbage Receptacle Compartments.Sec. 708.Weatherstripping of Windows.Sec. 709.Prohibited Uses.Sec. 710.Paints or Volatile Liquids.Sec. 711.Machine Shop, etc.Sec. 712.Identification of Utility Shutoff Devices.Sec. 713.Elevators.Fig. 712.Typical Multi Unit Dwelling Gas Meter Installation.
SEC. 701.  HEATING AND VENTILATION.
	(a)	Minimum Heat Requirements.
		(1)	Dwelling units, guest rooms and congregate residences of one habitable room other than the kitchen, heat capable of maintaining a room temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit at a point midway between the heating unit and the farthest wall and which point is four feet six inches above the floor, shall be made available to such habitable room for 11 hours between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.
		(2)	Dwelling units, guest rooms and congregate residences containing two or more habitable rooms, heat capable of maintaining a room temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit at a point midway between the heating unit and the furthest wall and which point is four feet six inches above the floor in the habitable rooms, shall be made available to the main room which is the room to which the other habitable rooms circulate for 11 hours between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.
		(3)	In every guest room except as specified in Section 707(c), heat shall be provided as herein above required for a dwelling unit with only one habitable room.
		(4)	Heat shall be furnished, within the guest room, congregate residence or dwelling unit by heating units located within the guest room, congregate residence or dwelling unit or from ductwork openings in the walls, floor or ceiling of said guest rooms, congregate residences or dwelling units. No direct openings for the entrance of heat shall be permitted between the exit corridor and the guest room, congregate residences or dwelling unit.
		(5)	The cost of maintaining heat as herein above required shall be a matter of agreement between the landlord and tenant thereof.
		(6)	Such facilities shall be installed and maintained in a safe condition and in accordance with the Building Code and all other applicable laws.
	(b)	Portable Heaters. All individual heaters installed in dwelling units, guest rooms and guest room suites must be permanently attached and properly wired. Wiring for heaters shall conform to the San Francisco Electrical Code.
	(c)	Heat Requirements in Apartment Houses and Hotels.
		(1)	Apartment houses and hotels shall comply with the requirements set forth in Section 701 above except that heat capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Centigrade) at a point midway between the heating unit and the furthest wall and which point is three feet above the floor, shall be made available to each occupied habitable room for 13 hours between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.
		(2)	In every building in which the heating system is not under the control of the tenant or occupant, a locking or nontamperable temperature-sensing device with a ±1½-degree Fahrenheit (0.8 degree Centigrade) tolerance shall be centrally located within the building in a habitable room to which heat is provided, whether occupied or unoccupied. The nontamperable device shall not be installed in a manager's unit or an owner's unit (except in an owner-occupied residential condominium). This device shall cause the heating system to cease heat production when the habitable room temperature exceeds 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Centigrade) and reactivate the system when the temperature drops below 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Centigrade).
		(3)	A timeclock set to provide the amount and hours of heat required in this Section shall be installed at or near the heating source (boiler, furnace, etc.) to control the heating system. A thermostat bypass switch wired in parallel with the thermostat shall be provided to allow testing of the boiler operation. This switch shall be located at or near the heating source.
		(4)	Except as otherwise provided in this Section, remotely located switches which override timeclock operation shall be prohibited.
	(d)	Electrical Equipment. All electrical fixtures, wiring and appurtenances hereto and their maintenance shall comply with the San Francisco Electrical Code and all other applicable sections of the laws of the State of California and the Municipal Code.
	(e)	Mechanical Ventilation. The provisions and requirements of the San Francisco Mechanical Code shall govern the installation and operation of mechanical ventilation systems and equipment.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 702.  RESERVED.
SEC. 703.  WEATHER PROTECTION.
	Every building shall be weather protected to provide shelter for the occupants and protection against the elements in accordance with the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 704.  ROOF DECKS AND DRYING PLATFORMS.
	The floors of roof decks and drying platforms on roofs of existing apartment houses or hotels shall conform to the applicable provisions of Section 1509.6 of the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 705.  SECURITY; PURPOSE.
	The purpose of this Section and Section 706 is to provide minimum standards to ensure the security of existing hotels, motels and apartment houses (including condominiums) particularly regarding point of entry into buildings.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 706.  SECURITY; STANDARDS.
	(a)	Hotels and Motels.
		(1)	Exterior Doors. All exterior swinging door assemblies and related hardware directly accessible from the ground level or by stairs, or ramps, or parking lots, or garage areas shall conform to the following:
			(i)	Doors shall be tight-fitting, in good condition, and self-closing.
			(ii)	Doors except those defined in Subsection (a)(2) of this Section shall be continuously locked but openable from the interior with no special effort or knowledge or key or otherwise secured in an approved manner. (Refer to Section 1003A.2 of the San Francisco Building Code.)
			(iii)	All exposed hinges, bolts, screws and similar fasteners holding the door in place shall be of the nonremovable type.
			(iv)	Replacement of any glazing in exterior doors or any area within 40 inches of the lock mechanism shall be with approved burglar-resistant glazing or laminated safety glass as defined in Section 1002A. San Francisco Building Code, and shall include one-quarter-inch-thick wire glass or iron grates or grills as an acceptable substitute.
		(2)	Main Entrances. All main entry doors, including electrically operated doors, shall be provided with an approved primary locking device. Main entry doors shall be defined as exterior doors leading directly to the lobby or registration areas or employee entrances.
			(i)	Exterior lobby entrances shall have doors and related hardware in good condition.
			(ii)	Nonremovable hardware - See Subsection (a)(1)(iii) of this Section.
			(iii)	Replacement glazing - See Subsection (a)(1)(iv) of this Section.
		(3)	Entry Doors.
		EXCEPTION: Residential care facilities licensed by the State of California under Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations shall not be required to comply with the requirements of this Subsection.
			(i)	Entry doors to guest rooms from corridors, or accessible by stairs, or ramps, or parking lot, or garage areas shall be a minimum one-and-three-eighths-inch solid bonded wood core or approved equal, unless required by Section 17.33, Title 19, California Code of Regulations to conform to retroactive high-rise requirements; in which case there shall be compliance with Title 19 retroactive high-rise requirements or the requirements of this Section, whichever is the more restrictive. Panels in panel-type doors shall be a minimum three-eighths-inch. Interior glass panel doors to guest rooms or tenant's unit shall have a minimum one-and-three-eighths-inch wood framing and shall be reinforced with one-quarter-inch plastic glazing sheet, minimum three-eighths-inch plywood sheet, or laminated safety glass, installed on the exterior or interior, or an approved equal, such as one-quarter-inch-thick wire glass or iron grates or grills installed on either side of an approved door. Other glass panel doors shall only comply with the aforementioned requirements upon replacement of glazing.
			(ii)	New locks shall be minimum one-inch deadbolt and shall be openable from the interior with no key, special effort or knowledge.
			(iii)	Existing locks with minimum five-eighths-inch deadbolt openable from the interior with no key, special effort or knowledge shall be deemed to comply with the minimum standards of this Code, or a surface-mounted horizontal-throw or vertical-throw deadbolt.
			(iv)	All locks in transient hotel rooms shall be capable of locking out all keys, except the emergency keys, for guest privacy while inside the room.
			(v)	Strike plates, when attached to wood jambs, shall be secured with not less than two number eight steel screws, which will penetrate at least two inches of solid framing. Strike plates, when attached to metal jambs, shall be blind bolted, welded, riveted or by approved means.
			(vi)	All doors shall be provided with a minimum 135-degree viewer which does not have sighting capability when viewed from the outside. Mounting height shall not exceed 58 inches.
			(vii)	Secondary entry doors (rear doors, doors from secondary rooms to corridors, etc.) Shall require at least a deadlatch or deadbolt, or a surface-mounted horizontal-throw or vertical-throw deadbolt. Secondary doors to corridors shall meet the requirements of Subsection (a)(3)(i) of this Section.
		(4)	Communicating Doors Between Guest Rooms. See Section 1004A.2 of the San Francisco Building Code.
			(i)	Communicating doors between guest rooms if not required to be fire-rated shall be of one-and-three-eighths-inch solid, bonded, wood core or approved equal, and shall have a lock, bolt or other device capable of securing doors in a closed position against forced entry.
		(5)	Sliding glass doors - See Section 1003A.6 of the San Francisco Building Code.
		(6)	Sliding glass windows - See Section 1003A.7 of the San Francisco Building Code.
		(7)	Roof Openings. Replacement of all skylights leading directly to dwelling rooms, guest rooms, utility rooms, office and enclosed commercial space shall be provided with burglary-resistant glazing as defined in Section 1004A.3 of the San Francisco Building Code and shall include one-quarter-inch-thick wire glass or iron grates or grills as an acceptable substitute. However, if the roof is sloping at an angle of at least four in 12, the above requirements are inapplicable.
		(8)	Parking Areas (Self Parking). See Section 1003A.8 of the San Francisco Building Code.
		(9)	Building Address Identification. See Section 107A.10 of the San Francisco Building Code.
	(b)	Apartment Houses (Includes Condominiums).
		(1)	Exterior Doors. See Subsection (a)(1) of this Section.
			(i)	Fire rating of exterior doors - See Subsection (a)(1)(i) of this Section.
			(ii)	Locking of exterior doors - See Subsection (a)(1)(ii) of this Section.
			(iii)	Nonremovable hardware - See Subsection (a)(1)(iii) of this Section.
			(iv)	Replacement glazing - See Subsection (a)(1)(iv) this Section.
			(v)	Strike plate - See Subsection (a)(3)(v) of this Section.
		(2)	Main Entrance. All exterior main entrance doors shall conform to the standards of Subsection (a)(1) of this Section for exterior doors.
			(i)	Exterior and main entrance door locks shall not be on any master key system.
			(ii)	Lighting shall be a minimum of one-half footcandle of light on the ground surface from the street to the entry door. Lighting devices shall be protected by weather-resistant and vandalism-resistant covers.
		(3)	Entry Doors. Entry doors to dwelling units shall be in accordance with Subsection (a)(3)(i) of this Section. Said Subsection shall also apply upon conversion of units to condominiums.
			(i)	Existing locks: Same as Subsection (a)(3)(iii) of this Section.
			(ii)	New locks: Same as Subsection (a)(3)(ii) of this Section.
			(iii)	Installation of new doors shall be with a primary locking device with minimum one-inch single-cylinder deadbolt.
			(iv)	All such doors, frames and jambs shall be in good condition and tight-fitting.
			(v)	Strike plate - See Subsection (a)(3)(v) of this Section.
			(vi)	All exposed hinges, bolts, screws and similar fasteners, holding the door in place if facing the exterior shall be of the nonremovable type.
			(vii)	Door view - See Subsection (a)(3)(vi) of this Section.
			(viii)	Secondary doors - See Subsection (a)(3)(vii) of this Section.
		(4)	Exit Doors. All exit doors from corridors to exit stairways and from interior stairwells and interior fire escapes and roof doors, if not required to be fire-rated, shall be a minimum of one-and-three-eighths-inch solid, bonded, wood core or approved equal. EXCEPTION: Doors leading to areas not accessible from the outside.
			(i)	Primary locking devices as defined in Section 1002A of the San Francisco Building Code shall be provided and have a minimum half-inch deadlatch. Locks shall be self-latching or locking and openable from the interior with no key, special effort or knowledge.
			(ii)	Nonremovable hardware - See Subsection (b)(3)(vi) of this Section.
			(iii)	Strike plate - See Subsection (a)(3)(iii) of this Section.
		(5)	Sliding glass doors - See Section 1003A.6 of the San Francisco Building Code.
		(6)	Sliding glass windows - See Subsection 1003A.7 of the San Francisco Building Code.
		(7)	Glazed openings into the units shall include, but not be limited to, areas accessible by permanent straight ladders from ground to fire escape balcony, inner courts and fire escapes through public area window or door, and rear yard areas not totally enclosed with a minimum eight-foot-high barrier. "Accessible" is defined as within eight feet vertical and four feet horizontally.
			(i)	Replacement of glazed openings accessible from the ground level, by stairs, ramps, parking lots, or garage area, shall be with approved laminated safety glass, one-quarter-inch-thick wire glass, or burglar-resistant glazing as defined in Section 1002A of the San Francisco Building Code. Protective iron grillwork may only be installed where it does not interfere with the required means of egress. Moreover, when iron grillwork is or has been installed over an exterior window or other opening to a sleeping room, the grillwork over at least one opening in each sleeping room must be equipped with an approved quick-release device capable of being operated without a key or special knowledge from within the room, which device must not be accessible from the exterior even if the glass is broken.
			(ii)	The requirements set forth in Subsection (i) shall also apply to existing glazed openings upon conversion of units to condominiums.
		(8)	Roof openings - See Subsection (a)(7) of this Section. Said section shall also apply upon conversion of units to condominiums.
		(9)	Garage Doors. All garage doors shall conform to the following standards:
			(i)	Wood panel doors shall have panels a minimum of one-quarter inch in thickness.
			(ii)	Aluminum doors shall be of a substantial thickness riveted together along the outside seams. There shall be a full-width horizontal beam attached to the main door structure.
			(iii)	Fiberglass doors shall have panels of substantial density.
			(iv)	Steel doors shall have steel sheets of substantial thickness.
			(v)	Doors operated by electrical means shall be provided with manual release capability from the interior, requiring no special effort or knowledge.
			(vi)	Manually operated chain-driven garage doors shall require the Director's approval.
 		(10)	Parking areas - See Section 1003A.8 of the San Francisco Building Code.
		(11)	Building address identification - See Section 107A.10 of the San Francisco Building Code.
		(12)	Metal gates - See Section 1003A.5 of the San Francisco Building Code.
		(13)	Replacement Installation. Any person or entity selling or installing glazing which is to be inserted in a glazed opening subject to this ordinance shall conform to the provisions of this ordinance. Said Section shall also apply to conversion of units to condominiums.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 18-92, App. 1/21/92; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 707.  GARBAGE RECEPTACLE COMPARTMENTS.
	All areas which are used, designed or intended for the storage of garbage or rubbish shall meet the following requirements:
		(1)	Shall, where provided or required to be provided, be large enough to permit storage and easy handling of all garbage cans. No can shall be placed within six inches of any wall or post.
		(2)	Shall be lined on all its sides and the ceiling with galvanized iron of not less than No. 26 gauge U.S. Standard. All seams and joints shall be interlocking and tight. As an alternate, the walls and ceilings shall be one-inch-thick Portland cement on an approved backing, steel troweled to a smooth finish; similarly, concrete blocks finished with smooth trowel stucco, or smooth concrete utilizing plywood forms is acceptable.
		(3)	Shall have floors of concrete or quarry tile; no wooden platforms shall be permitted.
		(4)	Shall have doors and trim that are metal lined on the inside with not less than 26 gauge U.S. Standard galvanized sheet metal. Seams shall be interlocking and tight.
		(5)	Shall be provided with self-closing tight-fitting door or doors.
		(6)	Shall be adequately ventilated as required. Openings or ducts as existing or required shall be screened at the outside to prevent ingress of flies and other vermin.
		(7)	Shall be maintained in good repair and in a clean condition at all times.
		(8)	Shall be provided with automatic sprinklers, except as required by the Building Code for new construction, and conversion to R-1 or R-2 Occupancy.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 708.  WEATHERSTRIPPING OF WINDOWS.
	Upon repair or alteration of any window in a residential building which leads to an unheated area, such window shall be weatherstripped so as to effectively and reliably limit air infiltration. Any window which is fire-rated is specifically exempted from this requirement. In determining which types of weatherstripping are acceptable, the Director shall consider, among other matters, whether the weatherstripping meets the energy conservation goals of this Code and is cost-effective.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 709.  PROHIBITED USES.
	(a)	Cooking. It shall be unlawful for any person to cook or prepare food in any bathroom, toilet room water closet compartment, or any other portion of a residential building in which the cooking or preparation of food is detrimental to the health of the occupant or the proper sanitation of the building. Community kitchens are prohibited in one-family and two-family dwellings and apartment buildings. One in-residence manager's apartment in any hotel may contain a kitchen, provided that this kitchen shall conform to all the requirements of a kitchen in an apartment house, and provided further that the apartment itself shall conform in its entirety to all other requirements for a dwelling unit in an apartment house. See also Section 507 of this Code.
	(b)	Sleeping. It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit another person to use any of the following portions of a building for sleeping purposes:
		(1)	A hallway, water closet or bath or shower compartment, slop sink room, or any room containing a gas appliance used or intended to be used for cooking purposes or containing an improperly vented gas appliance;
		(2)	Any other room or place which does not comply with the provisions of this Code for a sleeping room, or in which sleeping is dangerous, or prejudicial to life or health by reason of an overcrowded condition; a lack of light, windows, ventilation or drainage; fire hazard, dampness or offensive, obnoxious or poisonous odors in the room or place.
	(c)	Amusement Rooms. No amusement, entertainment, "rumpus," reception, public dining, or similar room in any residential building shall be used for sleeping purposes unless it meets all of the requirements of this Code for sleeping rooms and the applicable requirements of the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 710.  PAINTS OR VOLATILE LIQUIDS.
	(a)	The storage, processing or use of hazardous materials shall comply with all of the applicable provisions of the Fire Code.
	(b)	Paint Shop, etc. No portion of any apartment house or hotel shall be used as a paint shop, as a gasoline or oil service station or for storage of any hazardous material, or as a vulcanizing shop.
	EXCEPTION: The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any room or area in any portion of any apartment house or hotel building devoted to the retail storage, sale or use of any of the volatile flammable liquids referred to in this Section for pharmaceutical, medicinal, tonsorial or similar purposes; provided, that such volatile flammable liquids are used or dispensed from sealed containers not exceeding one gallon in capacity.
	The provisions of this Section shall not apply to the storage or use of an amount of liquid mixing components as would be necessary for maintenance purposes of the building in which they are kept; provided, that if the enforcement agency determines that such storage or use of such materials creates a fire hazard or other condition detrimental to health or safety the enforcement agency may require that such materials be stored in cabinets constructed of incombustible material satisfactory to the agency or may require compliance with the applicable provisions of this Section.
	(c)	Vertical Opening. No stairway, elevator shaft or other vertical opening shall directly connect any occupancy referred to in this Section with any other portion of an apartment house or hotel.
	(d)	Skylight. No skylight in any special use referred to in this Section shall open into a court or vent shaft.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 711.  MACHINE SHOP, ETC.
	No portion of an apartment house or hotel shall be used as a machine shop, automobile or motor vehicle repair shop or a battery shop.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 712.  IDENTIFICATION OF UTILITY SHUTOFF DEVICES.
	Existing apartment houses shall have directions showing the location of utility shutoff devices, and instructions for operating such devices, prominently posted in a public area of the building.
	All utility services shall have their location and shutoff devices identified as required by the San Francisco Building, Plumbing and Electrical Codes.
	The following diagram and instructions, printed on paper at least eight and one-half inches wide by 11 inches long, shall comply with the requirement to post instructions for operating shutoff devices imposed by this section. (See Figure 712 at the end of this chapter.)
	Notices required by this section shall be posted not later than April 1, 1991.
	Any tools necessary for shutoff shall be located in close proximity to the shutoff valve in a secure location that is accessible to tenants but is not susceptible to unauthorized tampering.
(Added by Ord. 361-90, App. 10/24/90; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 713.  ELEVATORS.
	In all R-1 and R-2 Occupancies, with building heights exceeding 50 feet, which are required to have an operable elevator per the Fire Code, said buildings shall have at least one operating elevator for the residential occupants use.
(Added by Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; amended by Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
FIGURE 712  TYPICAL MULTI UNIT DWELLING GAS METER INSTALLATION


Chapter 8
EXITS
Sec. 800.General.Sec. 801.Exits, Stairs and Occupant Load.Sec. 802.Stairways and Exit Corridors.Sec. 803.Basement Stairways.Sec. 804.Reserved.Sec. 805.Stairway to Roof.Sec. 806.Stairway Enclosures.Sec. 807.Smoke Barriers.Sec. 808.Elevator Enclosures.Sec. 809.Exit Connection from Rear Yard to Street.Sec. 810.Unobstructed Means of Egress.
SEC. 800.  GENERAL.
	In those buildings constructed or converted to R-1 or R-2 Occupancy, in which the Building Code, Fire Code, or regulations of the State Fire Marshal in effect at the time of construction or alteration require provisions other than this Code, the Building Code, Fire Code, and State Fire Marshal provisions shall prevail.
(Added by Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; amended by Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 801.  EXITS, STAIRS AND OCCUPANT LOAD.
	(a)	See Chapters 1A, 3 and 10 of the Building Code.
		Exit facilities for buildings constructed, altered or converted after July 26, 1958 shall comply with the codes in effect at the time of construction, alteration or conversion, or the provisions of Chapter 10 of the Building Code, whichever is the less restrictive, as is applicable to that occupancy.
		Exit facilities for buildings constructed, altered or converted prior to July 26, 1958 shall meet the following minimum requirements listed below, or where less than two exits are required shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 10 of the Building Code, including all requirements of the current Building Code for fire resistance and exits, whichever is the less restrictive:
	Each of the following buildings now in existence shall be provided with access for each dwelling unit or guest room to two exits which shall be accessible either directly or through a public hallway and shall be so located that if access to one be denied, the other shall be available:
		(1)	In apartment houses, hotels (and two-family dwellings per Section 310.4 of the Building Code).
			Where exits are arranged so that one exit must be passed to get to the other, intervening doorways between any exit doorway on a dead-end corridor more than 20 feet in depth and the main exit corridor shall be provided with a three-quarter-hour opening protector or a sprinkler head located on the room side of the doorways as well as in the dead-end corridor.
		(2)	Every single-family dwelling having more than two stories in which there are rental units shall have not less than two exits from the uppermost stories to a floor of occupancy below which has two exits to the exterior of the building.
		(3)	Every building or usable portion thereof shall have at least one exit and shall have not less than two exits where the occupant load exceeds the number set forth in Table 10A. In all occupancies floors above the first story having an occupant load of more than 10 shall have not less than two exits.
		(4)	In all buildings, in basements, dwelling units, and sleeping units below the fourth story, said sleeping rooms shall have an emergency egress of 5.7 square feet with minimum of 20-inch width and 24-inch height and a finished height sill not more than 44 inches above the floor. See Building Code Section 1026.
		(5)	Sleeping rooms below the fourth story shall have at least one operable window or exterior door approved for emergency escape or rescue. The units shall be operable from the inside to provide a full clear opening without the use of separate tools. Buildings with additional stories shall provide egress per Chapter 10 of the Building Code.
		EXCEPTIONS:
			(i)	Except as provided in Table No. 10A of the Building Code, only one exit shall be required from the second floor within an individual unit.
			(ii)	Two or more dwelling units on the second story may have access to only one common exit when the total occupant load does not exceed 10.
	(b)	Exit Doors Require Manual Release. In all one and two-family dwellings, apartment houses, and hotels, required means of egress doors, including security gates, must be equipped with an approved manual release mechanism that shall be operable from the inside without the use of a key, tool or any special knowledge or effort.
	(c)	Security Bars Require Manual Release. In all one and two-family dwellings, apartment houses, and hotels, security bars installed over an exterior window or door required for emergency rescue from a sleeping room, must be equipped with an approved manual release mechanism that shall be operable from the inside without the use of a key, tool or any special knowledge or effort.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 802.  STAIRWAYS AND EXIT CORRIDORS.
	(a)	Exit Corridors. Exit corridors in buildings constructed, altered or converted prior to July 26, 1958, shall have a minimum width of 30 inches.
	(b)	Stairways. Stairways in buildings altered or converted for use as an apartment house or hotel prior to July 26, 1958 shall have a minimum width of 30 inches. The rise and run of stairways need not be changed if part of the original building construction, except that is such buildings constructed, altered or converted after May 31, 1917 winding stairways are prohibited unless only used as a means of egress.
	(c)	Stairway Handrails. Every stairway shall have at least one handrail. All stairways more than 44 inches in width shall have handrails for each side, and every stairway required to be more than 88 inches in width shall have intermediate handrails dividing the stairway into portions not more than 66 inches in width. See also Chapter 10 of the San Francisco Building Code.
	EXCEPTION: Existing stairways in one-family and two-family dwellings shall have at least one handrail.
	(d)	Closets and Storage Areas Under Stairs. Closets and storage areas under stairs in Group R, Divisions 1 and 2 Occupancies shall conform to Section 1009.5.3 of the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 803.  BASEMENT STAIRWAYS.
	See Section 1020.1.5 except as follows:
	Every stairway to a basement in existing apartment houses and hotels three or more stories in height shall be enclosed.
	Unrated doors on existing enclosures may be covered in an approved manner with 24 gauge galvanized iron and be made self-closing in lieu of the required opening protectors.
	Basements having direct access to a street need only be provided with an enclosure at the top of the stairs.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 804.  RESERVED
SEC. 805.  STAIRWAY TO ROOF.
	See Section 1009.11 of the Building Code, except as otherwise approved.
	Stairway Penthouse Doors. See Section 1008 of the Building Code for installation of new doors and their construction requirements. The door to the roof from the penthouse or roof structure shall be self-closing, shall open outward, and shall be covered on the roof side and edges with tin or other approved metal. No stair penthouse door in any hotel or apartment house shall at any time be locked with a key, but may be fastened on the inside by a movable bolt or lock.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 806.  STAIRWAY ENCLOSURES.
	(a)	Required. Every existing interior public stairway in an apartment house or hotel three or more stories in height shall be enclosed as set forth in this Section or with smoke barriers or shall be provided with sprinklers as set forth in Section 807. See also Section 504, Subsection (d).
	(b)	Accessibility. Access to the stairway shall be available at each story level served by the stairway through a doorway. When opening from an exit corridor, the door shall swing in the direction of exit travel.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, app. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 807.  SMOKE BARRIERS.
	In buildings in which an existing Group R, Division 1 or 2 Occupancy is located on three or more stories and which does not have exit directly accessible from within each apartment or guest room without entering an exit corridor, every interior public stairway shall be enclosed as set forth in Section 806 of this Code or shall be provided with a smoke barrier and smoke stop door, as hereinafter described, to prevent fire and smoke from spreading, thereby cutting off the exit.
	When a hotel room or apartment opens directly upon the stairway so that the smoke barrier does not afford said room or apartment protection, said hotel room or apartment shall have a one- and-three-eighths-inch solid core wood door, an incombustible surfaced door or other similar approved door construction. Doors shall be equipped with an approved self-closing device.
	The smoke barrier and smoke stop door shall be located where directed by the Director and shall be constructed as follows:
		(1)	In Type IV and V (V-A and V-B) buildings, the smoke barrier may consist of partitions containing wire glass with solid core wood smoke stop doors. The doors shall be not less than one and three-eighths-inch thick, three feet wide, and six feet eight inches high equipped with an approved self-closing device. The smoke barrier may be of any approved similar construction except that wood panels and similar combustible materials shall not be permitted.
		(2)	In other than Type IV and V (V-A and V-B) buildings, the smoke barrier partitions shall be entirely of incombustible construction except for the smoke stop door and the trim and except that wire glass lights in the partition shall be permitted. The smoke stop door may be an unrated, solid-core wood door not less than one and three-eighths inch thick, three feet in width and six feet eight inches in height equipped with an approved self-closing device and may have wire glass lights therein.
	Smoke barrier doors may be held in an open position to allow for the necessary corridor ventilation, provided the means of holding the doors open include a smoke detection device and a heat activated device or a product of combustion detector connected to the restraining mechanism so that the doors are released upon the detection of smoke in the area or upon failure of the mechanism. There shall be no other means of preventing the doors from closing. The system shall be approved by the Director of the Department of Building Inspection.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 808.  ELEVATOR ENCLOSURES.
	In existing apartment houses and hotels, all elevator shafts shall be completely enclosed by walls and partitions of incombustible surface construction with doors constructed of one-and-three-eighths-inch solid-core wood, wire-glass set in steel frames, steel-clad hollow-core wood or similar approved materials. Elevator shafts shall be ventilated as set forth in Section 3004 of the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 809.  EXIT CONNECTION FROM REAR YARD TO STREET.
	See Chapter 1A of this Code.
	A rear yard to street passageway shall be provided for any building constructed or converted for use as an apartment house after 1909 in which there is an exit or means of egress terminating in the rear yard. Such passageways may be unprotected if constructed prior to September 1, 1917. For buildings constructed or converted after September 1, 1917 and prior to July 26, 1958, existing plaster on wood lath, existing galvanized metal over solid sheathing, or an approved automatic sprinkler system will be acceptable in lieu of the one-hour fire-resistive construction required. Openings into passageways shall be protected by covering wood doors with 24 gauge galvanized metal, installing wire glass in windows, or providing automatic sprinkler heads over each opening on the side opposite the passageway.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 810.  UNOBSTRUCTED MEANS OF EGRESS.
	(a)	Required. Obstructions, including storage, shall not be placed in the required width of a means of egress, except projections as allowed by the Building Code. Means of egress shall not be obstructed in any manner and shall remain free of any material or matter where its presence would obstruct or render the means of egress hazardous.
(Added by Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; amended by Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
Chapter 9
FIRE PROTECTION
Sec. 900.General.Sec. 901.Fire Alarms.Sec. 902.Fire Alarm Systems.Sec. 903.Wet Standpipes.Sec. 904.Automatic Sprinkler Systems.Sec. 905.Portable Fire Extinguishers.Sec. 906.Automatic Sprinklers.Sec. 907.Location of Equipment.Sec. 908.Maintenance and Repair.Sec. 909.Smoke Detection and Alarm Systems.Sec. 910.Reserved.Sec. 911.Single-Station Smoke Detector with Alarm Required.Sec. 912.Self-Closing Doors.
SEC. 900.  GENERAL.
	In those buildings constructed or converted to R-1 or R-2 Occupancy, in which the Building Code, Fire Code, or regulations of the State Fire Marshal in effect at the time of construction or alteration require provisions other than this Code, the Building Code, Fire Code, and State Fire Marshal provisions shall prevail.
(Added by Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; amended by Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 901.  FIRE ALARMS.
	(a)	Fire Alarms. See Section 907 of the Building Code.
	(b)	Exclusive Use. No signal system or intercommunicating system used for any purpose other than fire warning meets with the requirements of this chapter.
	(c)	Installation. Installation, inspection and maintenance of the fire alarm system shall be according to the Fire Code.
	(d)	Locations. Stations for operating any manually operated fire alarm system shall be placed immediately adjacent to the telephone switchboard, if there is a switchboard, and at such other location as may be approved.
	(e)	Fire alarm systems in existing buildings shall be extended or altered to provide adequate warning of fire to all habitable areas of the building when new construction or the addition of stair enclosures or smoke barriers render the alarm system inadequate.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 902.  FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
	Except in those buildings constructed or converted to R-1 or R-2 Occupancy in which the Building Code and/or Fire Code in effect at the time of construction or alteration require other provisions, a manual and automatic approved fire alarm system shall be installed in apartment houses that were constructed after December 31, 1988 that are three or more stories in height or contain six or more units and in hotels three or more stories in height or containing six or more guest rooms, in accordance with the Fire Code and the Electrical Code.
	EXCEPTIONS:
		(1)	Fire alarm systems need not be installed in buildings not over two stories in height when all individual dwelling units and contiguous attic and crawl spaces are separated from each other and from public or common areas by at least one-hour fire-resistive occupancy separations and each individual dwelling unit or guest room has an exit direct to a public way, exit court or yard, exterior stairway or exterior exit balcony.
		(2)	A separate fire alarm system need not be installed in buildings which are protected throughout by an approved supervised fire sprinkler system installed in accordance with Chapter 9 of the Building Code and having a local alarm to notify all occupants.
	NOTE: See Health and Safety Code Section 13113.7 and 13113.8 for other fire alarm requirements.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 903.  WET STANDPIPES.
	See Chapter 9 of the Building Code for wet and dry standpipe requirements.
	Buildings constructed, altered or converted prior to July 26, 1958, required to have wet standpipes may be provided with dry standpipes in lieu of the wet standpipes when approved by the Director and the Fire Marshal.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 904.  AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
	(a)	Where Required. In any apartment house or hotel, any compartment or room in the basement containing more than 1,800 square feet of floor area, or any compartment or room in such a building used for storing or using combustible or flammable materials, shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system of a type designed and installed according to the provisions of Chapter 9 of the Building Code. Automatic sprinkler systems designed and installed according to the provisions of Chapter 9 of the Building Code shall be furnished and installed in all hotels as required by this Code.
	EXCEPTIONS:
		(1)	Any automatic sprinkler system required by this Section to be installed in an existing hotel pursuant to this Code shall not be required to have an on-site water supply.
		(2)	Any automatic sprinkler system required by this Section to be installed in an existing hotel pursuant to this Code may utilize existing standpipes as approved by the Director and the Fire Marshal.
		(3)	Any automatic sprinkler system required by this Section to be installed in a maid's closet, or similar area, or a floor containing guest rooms in a hotel shall meet the following criteria: (a) Such system may be connected to a domestic water system, regardless of the number of maids closets, or similar areas, in the hotel, as long as there is a minimum pressure of 15 p.s.i. at each sprinkler head; (b) only one sprinkler head need be installed in each such maid's closet, or similar area; and (c) no such system need be connected to the building's sprinkler alarm system.
		(4)	Any automatic sprinkler system required by this Section to be installed in an existing hotel pursuant to this Code (a) shall, in the event that such existing hotel is already equipped with a supervised automatic sprinkler system, be connected to such existing other system for purposes of supervision only, or (b) shall, in the event that such existing hotel is not already equipped with a supervised automatic sprinkler system, be connected to a local alarm located at the front desk or other approved location.
	(b)	Domestic Water System. The sprinkler system in an area having less than 1,800 square feet may be connected to a domestic water system if the water supply and pressure conform to the provisions of Chapter 9 of the Building Code.
	(c)	Exceptions.
		(1)	Boiler rooms, central heating rooms and bank vaults are excluded from this chapter.
		(2)	Compartments or rooms in the basement of apartment houses containing four or less dwelling units, provided that there are no mattresses, upholstered furniture, or loose storage contained therein, are excluded from this chapter.
	(d)	In existing Group R, Division 1 and 2 Occupancies with enclosed stairways in which an approved partial automatic sprinkler system is to be installed to satisfy the requirements of the Housing Code, the design of the system shall be based on all the following additional design criteria:
		(1)	The computations shall be based upon the most remote locations of sprinkler heads.
		(2)	The sprinkler water service size and riser size shall be determined by adding the total number of sprinkler heads on the floor requiring the greatest number of heads, plus one-half of the total number on the floor with the same or next greatest number of heads, plus the total number of all heads in all open stairwells.
		(3)	The maximum water supply required will be that necessary to supply 13 sprinkler heads.
		(4)	There shall be a minimum pressure of 15 p.s.i. at each sprinkler head and delivery shall be a minimum of 22 g.p.m. from each head.
		(5)	Piping and spacing of sprinkler heads shall be based on ordinary Hazard Schedule of NFPA 13, in accordance with the Building Code.
	(e)	Residential Hotels. An automatic sprinkler system, designed in accordance with NFPA 13 (1999 Edition), shall be installed throughout the residential occupancy of every residential hotel building existing on October 16, 2001, and which contains 20 or more guest rooms, as defined in the California Building Code. "Residential hotel" for purposes of this Subsection shall mean each and every hotel for which a certificate of use for any residential units has been issued pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Chapter 41. The design criteria for the installation of the sprinkler system shall be approved by the San Francisco Fire Department and shall comply with NFPA 13 (1999 Edition). Those buildings that have installed a sprinkler system prior to August 20, 2001, that complies with a previous NFPA standard shall be exempt from this Subsection. Where a partial sprinkler system has been previously installed in a building subject to this Section, the design criteria for such existing sprinkler system, or any new system, may be approved or modified by the Chief of the San Francisco Fire Department or his/her authorized representative. Property owners who are subject to the requirements of this Subsection shall be prohibited from relocating tenants for the sole purpose of complying with this Subsection. Residential hotels subject to this Subsection must submit a building permit application and plans to the Department of Building Inspection and the Fire Department by September 1, 2002, and complete the fire sprinkler installation as required within Subsection (a) and (b) by December 31, 2002. All buildings governed by this Subsection which fail to comply with the September 1, 2002, filing deadline shall remain regulated by the original sprinkler installation deadline of June 30, 2002, and subject to immediate code enforcement action.
(Added by Order 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 170-02, App. 7/22/2002 (effective retroactive to 6/30/2002); Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 905.  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
	For distribution requirements see the San Francisco Fire Code.
	Every extinguisher shall be kept in a serviceable condition at all times.
	A foam type of extinguisher shall be recharged at least once each year, and the date of recharge shall be placed on an attached tag.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 906.  AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS.
	Automatic sprinklers shall be installed in:
		(1)	All existing garbage chutes within buildings four stories or less, except in dwellings, at the discharge end of the chute and immediately above the top of the highest hopper inlet, not to exceed 35 feet between heads;
		(2)	All existing garbage chutes within buildings five or more stories in addition to the requirements in item (1) of this section at every hopper inlet. If the hopper inlet opens directly into a public hall without an intervening door, a sprinkler head is to be installed on every floor above each hopper inlet;
		(3)	All laundry chutes except for dwellings;
		(4)	All garbage, trash and soiled linen rooms or compartments except in dwellings. Total number to be determined by area. The sprinkler head is to be set for 135 degrees;
		(5)	In all public areas of hotels not otherwise required to be sprinklered by this code. For purposes of this Section, the term "public areas" shall be defined to include only the following types of areas:
			(i)	Lobby areas,
			(ii)	Ballrooms,
			(iii)	Meeting rooms (excepting, however, those rooms which are used as meeting rooms on a temporary basis),
			(iv)	Restaurants and other areas generally used for the purpose of serving food to the public,
			(v)	Bars and cocktail lounges,
			(vi)	Night clubs and similar areas,
			(vii)  Retail shops and similar areas (excepting, however, those retail shops and similar areas which are separated from the rest of the hotel by a fire-rated wall (such wall may contain openings as long as each opening is the equivalent of a one-hour fire-rate assembly) and which (a) opens directly to the exterior of the building through a sprinkler protected corridor not more than 25 feet from the street and having a token sprinkler head on the retail shop side of the opening into such corridor), and
			(viii) Corridors connecting any two or more public areas as defined in this Section.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 907.  LOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
	Standpipes, automatic sprinkler systems, automatic fire alarm systems, fire escapes and all fire protective equipment shall be constructed, located and installed as required by Chapter 9 of the Building Code and as approved by the Director, and location of standpipes shall be approved by the Bureau of Fire Prevention.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 908.  MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
	All safety devices or equipment provided for in this chapter shall be maintained in good repair at all times. Fire escapes shall be kept clear and unobstructed and be readily accessible at all times. Upon inspection, the property owner, or authorized agent, shall demonstrate to the Director or designated personnel, that all existing fire escapes are fully operational and properly maintained. Upon completion of the inspection, all existing fire escapes shall be secured pursuant to Section 1110.3.1. of the San Francisco Fire Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 909.  SMOKE DETECTION AND ALARM SYSTEMS.
	(a)	All occupancies in buildings which are three or more stories in height or in buildings having five or more dwelling units, or six or more guest rooms, or a combination of dwelling units and guest rooms six or more in number, shall be provided with a smoke detection and alarm system as provided herein.
	EXCEPTIONS:
		(1)	Buildings of Type I (I-A) or Type II (I-B, II-A, II-B) construction.
		(2)	Buildings having a sprinkler system conforming as a minimum with the requirements of Section 807 of the San Francisco Housing Code.
		(3)	Existing buildings having smoke detectors in all individual dwelling units which are installed prior to March 1, 1977, in conformity with the requirements for fire-warning systems in effect on that date, and maintained in conformity with applicable provisions of the Fire Code.
		(4)	Buildings in which all individual dwelling units and guest rooms have access to the exterior at ground level without use of any interior public hallway or any interior public stairway. Access to a fire escape shall not qualify for this exception.
	(b)	All required smoke detection and alarm systems shall be installed and maintained in conformity with the following requirements:
		(1)	All smoke detectors shall be located in accordance with an approved plan in all public corridors and public stairways. Such detectors shall be located not more than 30 feet apart and shall be located within 15 feet of a corridor wall or the end of the corridor. There shall be one detector at the top of each public stairway and an additional detector in such stairway at every third floor below the top of such stairway. All required smoke detector and alarm systems shall be approved by the Director and the Fire Department.
			All required smoke detector and alarm systems installed prior to January 1, 1989, shall conform to applicable requirements of the National Fire Protection Association Standards 72-A, 1981 Edition and 72-E, 1981 Edition, except that where there is a conflict between the provisions and this Section, the provisions of this Section shall prevail. As an alternate, smoke detector and alarm systems may comply with the 1988 San Francisco Building and Electrical Codes.
		(2)	All audible devices activated by the operation of any required smoke detector shall be installed in an approved location and shall emit a loud continuous alarm clearly audible in all occupied areas of the building.
			All required heat detectors shall be connected to the audible devices of all required smoke detection and alarm systems located and supervised as required under this Code, and such heat detectors shall be operationally interconnected to such systems.
		EXCEPTION: Heat detectors are not required in:
			(i)	Buildings of Type I or Type II construction;
			(ii)	Buildings having a sprinkler system conforming as a minimum with the requirements of Section 807 of the Housing Code;
			(iii)	Existing buildings having smoke detectors in all individual dwelling units which were installed prior to March 1, 1977, in conformity with the requirements for smoke detectors in effect on that date, and maintained in conformity with applicable provisions of the Fire Code;
			(iv)	Buildings in which all individual dwelling units and guest rooms have access to the exterior at ground level without use of any interior public hallway or any interior public stairway access to a fire escape which shall not qualify for this exception;
			(v)	Buildings having three-quarter-hour opening protectors in each inner court or having a sprinkler head at each window of such inner court.
	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 104, nothing in this Section is intended to authorize heat detectors as an alternative material or method to any required sprinkler, fire alarm, or other fire safety device.
		(3)	Where there is no fire alarm system as required under Section 907 of the San Francisco Building Code, a manual fire alarm pull box capable of activating audible devices of required smoke detectors shall be installed in an approved location near the main entrance of the building.
		(4)	All required smoke detectors and alarm systems shall receive their power supply from the building electrical system. All such systems shall be electrically supervised locally for system malfunction and power supply interruption. "Supervision" shall consist of the following elements, or those "supervision" provisions provided by standard industry supervision panel boxes as approved by the State Fire Marshal:
			(i)	A green indicator light to indicate that the system is in a functional condition.
			(ii)	A blinking red indicator light and an audible device to provide a warning when there is a malfunction or power supply interruption. Such audible device shall be provided with a silencing switch which shall automatically reset when function of the system or power supply to the system is reestablished.
			(iii)	A sign located in the interior of the building near the main entrance. Such sign shall be readily visible. Indicator lights required under this Subparagraph (b)(4) shall be located in the center of such sign, the top of which shall announce, "FIRE ALARM SYSTEM," and the bottom of which shall announce, "OPERATING," and "TROUBLE" below the green and red lights, respectively. All letters forming such announcements shall be at least one-half inch in height.
		(5)	Similar supervisory indicating devices existing at the time of adoption of this ordinance shall be deemed in compliance with this Section if approved by the Director and the San Francisco Fire Department.
	(c)	Upon completion of the installation of any system required under this Section, the installer of such system shall provide to the Director, in a form acceptable, a certification that the system is operational and functioning.
	(d)	All required smoke detection and alarm systems shall be maintained as required by the Fire Code.
	(e)	Where an approved fire alarm system is required under Section 310.14.12 of the San Francisco Building Code, such fire alarm system shall be operationally interconnected with any required smoke detection and alarm system such that the fire alarm bells shall be activated by either system. All audible devices of any approved fire alarm system shall conform to the requirements of this Section.
	(f)	Where a sprinkler alarm bell is required under Chapter 9, the sprinkler shall also be interconnected to both the fire alarm system and the smoke detection and alarm system.
	(g)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 104, nothing in this Section is intended to authorize smoke detection and alarm systems as an alternative material or method to any required sprinkler, fire alarm or other fire safety device.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 320-99, App. 11/22/99; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 910.  RESERVED.
SEC. 911.  SINGLE-STATION SMOKE DETECTOR WITH ALARM REQUIRED.
	(a)	A single-station smoke detector with alarm shall be installed within each dwelling unit and guest room in all Group R, Division 1, 2, and 3 Occupancies within three years of the date of adoption of this ordinance. The detector with alarm shall be furnished and installed as required by Section 907.2.10 of the San Francisco Building Code. Buildings which are certified by the Director as having installed the smoke and heat detection and alarm systems required under Section 909 and 910 of this Code and Section 907.2.10.of the San Francisco Building Code, and buildings which are equipped with an approved automatic sprinkler system installed throughout in accordance with Chapter 9 of the San Francisco Building Code are exempt from the requirements of this Section. Except as noted below, battery-operated detectors are not acceptable. Buildings built prior to July 17, 1977, which have an approved smoke detector connected to the dwelling unit or guest room wiring, may be accepted provided that a licensed electrical contractor certifies that such detector and alarm in each unit complies with this Section.
	EXCEPTIONS:
		(1)	In single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings, a single-station smoke detector with alarm, energized either by the electrical system of the dwelling unit or by battery power, shall comply with this Section.
		(2)	No smoke detector shall be required in a hotel pursuant to this Section or Section 310.9.1 (or any subsection thereof) of the Building Code with respect to any hotel that is fully sprinklered in accordance with NFPA Recommended Standard No. 101, Life Safety Code. For purposes of this exception, a "fully sprinklered" hotel may include unsprinklered guest room bathrooms which are in excess of 55 square feet in area but which do not contain permanently installed combustible plastic vanity table or bath-shower fixtures.
	(b)	Property owners shall supply proof of compliance by following the procedures set forth in Section 907.2.10 of the Building Code.
	(c)	The building owner shall be responsible for the installation, testing and maintenance of the detector after installation. All such testing and maintenance shall be performed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 912.  SELF-CLOSING DOORS.
	Every door between hotel guest room, community kitchen, or community toilet room and the immediately adjacent corridor on floors containing guest rooms shall be equipped with an approved self-closing, or equivalent, device which may consist of a spring-loaded hinge.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
Chapter 10
SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
Sec. 1001.General.Sec. 1002.Additional Substandard Conditions: Electrical Outlets, Elevators, Illegal Conversion of Residential Hotels, Residential Hotel Mail Receptacles, Telephone Jacks and Wiring, and Notice Posting.
SEC. 1001.  GENERAL.
	(a)	Any residential building or portion thereof, as defined by California Health and Safety Code, Division 13, Part 1.5, State Housing Law, Sections 17920.3 et seq., including any dwelling units, guest room or suite of rooms, or the premises on which the same is located, in which there exists any of the conditions enumerated in this chapter to an extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety or welfare of the public or the occupants thereof shall be deemed and hereby is declared to be a substandard building.
	(b)	Inadequate Sanitation and Safety. Inadequate sanitation and safety, including:
		(1)	Lack of, or improper water closet, lavatory, and bath tub or shower in a dwelling unit;
		(2)	Lack of, or improper water closets, lavatories, and bath tubs or showers per number of guests in a hotel;
		(3)	Lack of, or improper kitchen sink in a dwelling unit;
		(4)	Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a hotel or lodging house;
		(5)	Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a dwelling unit;
		(6)	Lack of adequate heating facilities or improper operation thereof;
		(7)	Lack of, or improper operation of required ventilating equipment;
		(8)	Lack of minimum amounts of natural light and ventilation required by this Code;
		(9)	Room and space dimensions less than required by this Code;
		(10)	Lack of required electrical illumination;
		(11)	Dampness of habitable rooms.
		(12)	Infestation of insects, vermin or rodents;
		(13)	General dilapidation or improper maintenance.
		(14)	Lack of connection to required sewage disposal system;
		(15)	Lack of adequate garbage and rubbish storage and removal facilities;
	(c)	Structural Hazards. Structural hazards shall include, but not be limited to the following:
		(1)	Deteriorated or inadequate foundations;
		(2)	Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports;
		(3)	Flooring or floor supports of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety;
		(4)	Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports that split, lean, list or buckle due to defective material or deterioration;
		(5)	Members of walls, partitions, or other vertical supports that are of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety;
		(6)	Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other horizontal members which sag, split or buckle due to defective material or deterioration;
		(7)	Members of ceiling, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other horizontal members that are of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety;
		(8)	Fireplaces or chimney which list, bulge, or settle due to defective material or deterioration;
		(9)	Fireplaces or chimneys which are of insufficient size or strength to carry imposed loads with safety;
	(d)	Nuisance. Any nuisance as defined in this Code. See Section 401.
	(e)	Hazardous Wiring.
		(1)	All wiring except that which conformed with all applicable laws in effect at the time of installation or the laws in effect at the time of any subsequent alterations and which has been maintained in good and safe condition and working properly.
	(f)	Hazardous Plumbing. All plumbing except that which conformed with all applicable laws in effect at the time of installation or the laws in effect at the time of any subsequent alterations and which has been maintained in good condition and which is free of cross-connections and siphonage between fixtures.
	(g)	Hazardous Mechanical Equipment. All mechanical equipment, including vents, except that which conformed with all applicable laws in effect at the time of installation or the laws in effect at the time of any subsequent alterations and which has been maintained in good and safe condition.
	(h)	Faulty Weather Protection.
		(1)	Deteriorated, crumbling or loose plaster;
		(2)	Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing or weather protection of exterior walls, roof, foundations or floors, including broken windows or doors;
		(3)	Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall coverings including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint or other approved protective covering.
		(4)	Broken, rotted, split or buckled exterior wall or roof covering.
	(i)	Fire Hazard. Any building or portion thereof, device, apparatus, equipment, combustible waste, or vegetation which is in such a condition as to cause a fire or explosion or provide a ready fuel to augment the spread and intensity of fire or explosion arising from any cause.
	(j)	Faulty Materials of Construction. All materials of construction except those which are specifically allowed or approved by the Building Code, and which have been adequately maintained in good and safe condition.
	(k)	Hazardous or Insanitary Premises. Those premises on which an accumulation of weeds, vegetation, junk, dead organic matter, debris, garbage, offal, rat harborages, stagnant water, combustible materials and similar materials or conditions constitute fire, health, life or safety hazards.
	(l)	Inadequate Maintenance. Any building or portion thereof which is determined to be an unsafe building in accordance with Section 102A of the Building Code.
	(m)	Inadequate Exit. All buildings or portions thereof not provided with adequate exits as defined in Chapter 10 of the Building Code. When it is determined by the Director that an unsafe condition exists through lack of or improper location of exits, additional exits may be required to be installed.
	(n)	Inadequate Fire Protection Equipment. All buildings or portions thereof which are not provided with the fire-resistive construction or fire-protection systems or equipment required by this Code.
	(o)	Improper Occupancy. All buildings or portions thereof occupied for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes which were not designed or intended to be used for such occupancies.
	(p)	Inadequate structural resistance to horizontal forces.
(Amended by Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1002.  ADDITIONAL SUBSTANDARD CONDITIONS: ELECTRICAL OUTLETS, ELEVATORS, ILLEGAL CONVERSION OF RESIDENTIAL HOTELS, RESIDENTIAL HOTEL MAIL RECEPTACLES, TELEPHONE JACKS AND WIRING, AND NOTICE POSTING.
	In addition to the provisions set forth in Section 1001 of this chapter prescribed by California Health and Safety Code, Division 13, Part 1.5, State Housing Law, Sections 17920.3 et seq., the following conditions are considered substandard:
	(a)	Electrical Outlets. Habitable rooms and kitchens with insufficient number of electrical convenience outlets as required by Section 504 of this Code.
	(b)	Elevators. Lack of elevator service as required by Section 713 of this Code.
	(c)	Illegal Conversion of Residential Hotels. Illegal conversion of any residential unit of a residential hotel, or improper recordkeeping as defined and required by Chapter 41 of the San Francisco Administrative Code.
	(d)	Mold and Mildew. The existence of mold and mildew which is chronic or severe as defined by Chapter 4 of this code.
	(e)	Residential Hotel Mail Receptacles. Lack of an individual mail receptacle for each residential unit in a residential hotel, as required by Section 41E of the San Francisco Administrative Code. The hotel owner is responsible for making arrangements with the United States Postal Service for the installation of these receptacles and delivery of mail thereto. Installation and maintenance of the mail receptacles shall meet all of the specifications and requirements of the United States Postal Service. Compliance with United States Postal Service specifications and requirements, and delivery of mail by the United States Postal Service, will not be enforced by the Department of Building Inspection.
	(f)	Telephone Jack and Wiring. Lack of at least one usable telephone jack and working inside telephone wiring, as required by Section 1941.4 of the California Civil Code;
	(g)	Grab Bars. Lack of grab bars in common- use bathing and lavatory facilities for guest rooms as required by Section 505(j) of this Code .
	(h)	Residential hotel notice posting requirement. The owner or operator of a residential hotel, as defined in Chapter 41 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, shall post a notice approved by the Department of Building Inspection notifying the occupants that they may contact the City and County of San Francisco's 24 × 7 Customer Service Center at 311 to report alleged violations of this Code. The notice shall be posted in a conspicuous location at the lobby. If there is no lobby, the notice shall be posted in the public entranceway.
(Amended by Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 73-06, App. 4/20/2006, Eff. 5/21/2006; Ord. 82-10, App. 4/22/2010, Eff. 5/23/2010; Ord. 29-13, App. 2/26/2013, Eff. 3/26/2013)
Chapter 11
FINAL COMPLETION AND OCCUPANCY
Sec. 1101.Certificate of Final Completion.
SEC. 1101.  CERTIFICATE OF FINAL COMPLETION.
	See Sections 109A and 3406 of the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
Chapter 12
RESIDENTIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION
Sec. 1201.Title.Sec. 1202.Findings.Sec. 1203.Intent.Sec. 1204.Definitions.Sec. 1205.Energy Inspections.Sec. 1206.Qualified Energy Inspectors.Sec. 1207.Proof of Compliance with Minimum Energy Conservation Measures.Sec. 1208.Exemptions and Postponement.Sec. 1209.Limitation of Expenditure.Sec. 1210.Energy Conservation Requirements Upon Major Improvement, Metering Conversion, Residential Condominium Conversion, or Complete Inspection.Sec. 1211.Energy Inspection Requirement at Transfer of Title.Sec. 1212.Required Energy Conservation Measures.Sec. 1213.Appeal from Results of an Energy Inspection.Sec. 1214.Amortization in Rental Property.Sec. 1215.Civil Remedies.Sec. 1216.Fees.Sec. 1217.Rules.Sec. 1218.Interim Rules.Sec. 1219.Ordinance Review.Sec. 1220.Severability.
SEC. 1201.  TITLE.
	This Chapter shall be known as the Residential Energy Conservation Ordinance.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1202.  FINDINGS.
	The Board of Supervisors finds that:
	(a)	As a result of dependence upon conventional sources of energy, the citizens of San Francisco will continue to experience rapid increases in the cost of home energy and uncertainty as to the availability of future home energy supplies.
	(b)	Significant opportunities exist for the citizens of San Francisco to reduce energy consumption and become less dependent on the supply of conventional energy for home use, through the installation of proven energy conservation technologies in existing homes.
	(c)	Conservation of electricity and natural gas is essential to the economic security and well-being of the people of San Francisco. Conservation reduces overall demand for electricity and natural gas and therefor helps reduce both the cost of energy and the rate of inflation. Benefits to the community as a whole can be realized through reduced energy costs as a direct result of conservation. These benefits include the lowering of housing costs, stimulation of the local economy and creation of local jobs.
	(d)	While the increasing burden of utility costs has stimulated some conservation investment in owner-occupied housing, little progress has been made in improving energy efficiency in rental housing where owners do not pay utility bills or where utility costs are included in the rent. Rental housing comprises approximately two-thirds of all San Francisco housing.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1203.  INTENT.
	It is the intent of this ordinance to contribute to the affordability of San Francisco housing by promoting the wise and efficient use of energy through cost-effective energy conservation standards for residential housing. It is also the intent to overcome the current barriers to energy conservation in rental housing and to reduce the impact of rising energy costs upon renters.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1204.  DEFINITIONS.
	In addition to the definitions contained in Chapter 4 of this Code, for the purposes of this ordinance the following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them by this Section.
	(a)	Accessible. There is insufficient space in which to install the specified energy conservation measure without significant alteration to the structure.
	(b)	Accessible Attic Space. A space between a ceiling joist and roof rafter where the vertical clear height from the top of the bottom chord of the truss or ceiling joist to the underside of the roof sheathing at the roof ridge is 18 inches or greater.
	(c)	California Plan for the Residential Conservation Service. The plan adopted by the California State Energy resources Conservation and Development Commission and filed with the U.S. Department of Energy on June 4, 1980, as amended in January 1981, to meet the requirements of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-619, Title II, Part 1).
	(d)	Complete Inspection. An inspection of the entire building done by the Department of Building Inspection, including but not limited to: inspection of all buildings with "R1," "R2," and "R3" occupancies as defined in the Building Code pursuant to the Department's code enforcement program, inspections for RAP loans and inspections for condominium conversion. An inspection of only the public areas of a building does not constitute a complete inspection.
	(e)	Cost-effective. That the contractor installed cost of any energy conservation measure amortized over its useful life will be equal to or less than the amount of money saved by consumers. In figuring the cost of an energy conservation measure, the interest rate charged at the time of installation is included.
	(f)	Escrow. As used herein, an escrow opened for the sale and purchase of real residential property situated in the City and County of San Francisco.
	(g)	Energy Inspection. An inspection of a dwelling to determine which energy conservation measures required under this ordinance are needed.
	(h)	Meter Conversion. The replacement of a master meter for electricity or natural gas that serves more than one dwelling unit with individual meters that serve each dwelling unit separately.
	(i)	Residential Building. Any privately owned single or multiple unit dwelling, apartment house, condominium or other building used for "R1," "R2," or "R3" occupancy as defined in the Building Code, excluding mobile homes, tourist hotels and motels.
		The residential portion of any residential building occupied as mixed residential commercial use shall be considered a residential building within the meaning of this chapter.
	(j)	R-value. The measure of the resistance of a material or building component to the passage of heat. R-value is measured in the United States customary units based upon square feet per hour per degree Fahrenheit divided by Btu.
	(k)	Simple Economic Payback. The time needed to recover a conservation investment on the basis of expected energy savings at current energy costs. Simple economic payback is expressed in years, and is calculated by dividing the estimated contractor-installed cost of a conservation measure by the estimated dollar savings in the first year. Available tax credits and future energy costs are not considered in the calculation.
	(l)	Transfer of Title. The conveyance of title to real property by one or more persons as a result of sale or exchange, and including the execution of a real property sales contract as defined in Section 2985 of the California Civil Code and any change of ownership described in Subdivisions (c) and (h) of Section 61 and Subdivision (c) of Section 64 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
	(m)	Unheated Areas. Any space exposed to ambient temperatures and not provided with a heat supply capable of maintaining a minimum temperature of 50 degrees Fahrenheit.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1205.  ENERGY INSPECTIONS.
	An energy inspection which satisfies the requirements of this chapter may be either:
	(a)	Any complete inspection by the Department of Building Inspection for a residential building;
	(b)	Any energy inspection or energy audit conducted according to standards established by the California Plan for the Residential Conservation Service for a residential building containing one or two dwelling units.
	(c)	Any energy inspection or energy audit by a utility whose energy inspection or audit program meets the requirements of this chapter as determined by the Director; or
	(d)	Any inspection by an inspector authorized by Section 1206(a)(2) of this chapter for compliance or noncompliance with the energy conservation requirements of this chapter.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1206.  QUALIFIED ENERGY INSPECTORS.
	(a)	Energy inspections required pursuant to this ordinance may only be conducted by one of the following:
		(1)	A utility energy auditor, or contracting representative of a utility, certified by the State under the California Plan for the Residential Conservation Service;
		(2)	A private energy inspector authorized by the City and County of San Francisco; or
		(3)	An authorized inspector of the Department of Building Inspection.
	(b)	In addition, private energy inspections may be conducted on a contractual basis with the Department of Building Inspection under terms and fees to be recommended by the Department of Building Inspection and established by the Board of Supervisors.
	(c)	In reviewing an application for authorization to conduct private energy inspections, the Director must determine that the applicant has a high level of technical competence and objectivity relative to the application of this chapter and other provisions of this Code and the Building Code relating to energy conservation.
	(d)	No authorized energy inspector may have a direct financial interest in the sale or installation of an energy conservation device required under this ordinance when inspecting residential buildings containing three or more dwelling units. Nor may an authorized energy inspector conduct an energy inspection on any building in which that inspector has an interest.
	(e)	The Director shall publish written standards and guidelines which shall govern the review of applications for authorization to conduct private energy inspections. These guidelines shall contain procedures for revocation of an authorization to conduct private energy inspections where the Director determines that the inspector is incompetent or nonobjective.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1207.  PROOF OF COMPLIANCE WITH MINIMUM ENERGY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
	(a)	Contents. The Department of Building Inspection shall provide a standardized form, that may be paper and/or electronic, suitable for conducting a valid energy inspection and certifying compliance with the requirements of this ordinance. Said form shall contain both an inspection form listing energy conservation measures required by the Chapter and a compliance certificate.
	(b)	Inspection Form. The inspection form shall be completed and signed by any qualified inspector, furnished to the building owner or the owner's authorized representative, and submitted to the Department of Building Inspection within 15 days from the date of completing the inspection.
	(c)	Certificate of Compliance. When all of the energy conservation requirements have been met, the certificate of compliance shall be submitted to the Department of Building Inspection by one of the following:
		(1)	A qualified energy inspector pursuant to Section 1206; or
		(2)	For a residential building containing one or two dwelling units only: the state licensed contractor who installed the energy conservation measures required as a result of the energy inspection; or
		(3)	An authorized agent of the Department of Building Inspection.
	(d)	Filing and Recording. Proof of compliance with the requirements of this Section shall be accomplished by submitting a copy of the completed certificate of compliance to the Department of Building Inspection which shall maintain a paper and/or electronic copy. A copy of the completed certificate of compliance shall be recorded by the building owner, or the building owner's authorized representative, with the San Francisco County Recorder's Office. In the event of a title transfer, it shall be recorded prior to or concurrent with transfer of title.
	(e)	Public Record. Energy inspection results and certificates of compliance shall be public information and shall be available for inspection by any interested person during regular business hours at the Department of Building Inspection.
	(f)	Limitation of Utility Inspections. Nothing in this Section nor in any other provision of this chapter shall impose any obligation on a utility to perform more than one visit to a dwelling unit for any purpose. Nothing in this Section nor in any other provision of this chapter shall impose any obligation on a utility energy auditor to visit a dwelling unit solely for certification of compliance purposes.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 1208.  EXEMPTIONS AND POSTPONEMENT.
	(a)	No energy inspection and consequent installation of energy conservation measures shall be required for:
		(1)	Any residential building for which proof of compliance with the energy conservation requirements of this ordinance has been recorded with the Department of Building Inspection and the Recorder's Office of the City and County of San Francisco;
		(2)	Any portion of a residential building for which a building permit for its construction was granted after July 1, 1978;
		(3)	Any residential building which is occupied as a mobile home;
		(4)	Any residential building, or portion thereof, which is occupied as a hotel, motel or inn and which has a certificate of use for tourist occupancy; or
		(5)	Any portion of a residential building which is converted to tourist hotel use pursuant to the Residential Hotel Conversion Ordinance (Administrative Code, Article 41).
	(b)	Postponement of Requirements. Application of inspection and energy conservation requirements for any residential building shall be postponed for one year from the date of application for a demolition permit for said building. If the residential building is demolished and a Certificate of Completion issued by the Department of Building Inspection before the end of the one-year postponement, the requirements of this chapter shall not apply. If the residential building is not demolished after the expiration of one year, the provisions of this chapter shall apply even though the demolition permit is still in effect or a new demolition permit has been issued.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1209.  LIMITATION OF EXPENDITURE.
	In no case shall any building owner be required to spend more than one percent of the purchase price indicated on the real estate sales contract (in cases where the energy inspection was conducted in connection with transfers to title to residential building), or one percent of the assessed value of the building, whichever is greater, to comply with the requirements of this ordinance, nor in the case of a building of two units or less, shall the cost exceed $1,300; provided, however, that the building owner must install any combination of required energy conservation measures for which the sum of all expenditures most closely equals but does not exceed the aforementioned cost limitation.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 31-94, App. 01/14/94; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1210.  ENERGY CONSERVATION REQUIREMENTS UPON MAJOR IMPROVEMENT, METERING CONVERSION, RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION, OR COMPLETE INSPECTION.
	A valid energy inspection pursuant to Section 1205 and subsequent compliance with required energy conservation measures pursuant to Section 1212 shall be required of a residential building as follows:
	(a)	Metering Conversion. As a condition for issuance of a Certificate of Inspection and Approval for a metering conversion by the Department of Building Inspection;
	(b)	Major Improvements. As a condition for issuance of a Certificate of Inspection and Approval upon completion of improvements having an estimated valuation as follows:
		(1)	Buildings containing one or two dwelling units – in excess or $20,000.
		(2)	Buildings containing three or more dwelling units, excluding residential hotels – in excess of $6,000 per unit.
		(3)	Residential hotels – in excess of $1,000 per unit.
	(c)	Condominium Conversion. As a condition of approval of a Certificate of Final Completion and Occupancy;
	(d)	Complete Inspection. Within 180 days after a complete inspection is performed by the Department of Building Inspection.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1211.  ENERGY INSPECTION REQUIREMENT AT TRANSFER OF TITLE.
	(a)	Prior to any transfer of title of any residential building subject to the provisions of this chapter as a result of sale or exchange, the seller, or the seller's authorized representative, shall obtain a valid energy inspection and shall install all applicable energy conservation measures required by Section 1212 as enumerated in the energy inspection form. The seller, or the seller's authorized representative, must furnish a copy of the completed inspection form showing compliance with this chapter to the buyer prior to transfer of title.
	(b)	Title Transfer Exemption. A transfer of a residential building by operation of law rather than by purchase is exempt from the provision of this chapter. This exemption includes, but is not limited to:
		(1)	Transfers pursuant to court order, including, but not limited to, transfers ordered by a probate court in administration of an estate, transfers pursuant to a writ of execution, transfers by a trustee in bankruptcy, transfers by eminent domain, or transfers resulting from a decree for specific performance;
		(2)	Transfers to a mortgagee by a mortgagor in default, transfers to a beneficiary of a deed of trust by a trustor in default, transfers by any foreclosure sale after default in an obligation secured by a mortgage, or transfer by a sale under a power of sale after a default in an obligation secured by a deed of trust or secured by any other instrument containing a power of sale;
		(3)	Transfers by a fiduciary in the course of the administration of a guardianship, conservatorship, or trust;
		(4)	Transfers from one co-owner to one or more co-owners;
		(5)	Transfers made to a spouse, or a domestic partner registered with the State of
California, or to a person or persons in the lineal line of consanguinity of one or more of the transferors;
		(6)	Transfers between spouses or domestic partners resulting from a decree of dissolution of a marriage or a domestic partnership or a decree of legal separation or from a property settlement agreement incidental to such decrees;
		(7)	Transfers by the State Controller in the course of administering the Unclaimed Property Law, Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 1500) of Title 10 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure;
		(8)	Transfers under the provisions of Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 3691) and Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 3771) of Part 6 of Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;
		(9)	Transfers resulting by operation of law;
		(10)	Transfers by which title to real property is reconveyed pursuant to a deed of trust;
		(11)	Transfers for which a transfer agreement was entered into prior to the effective date of this ordinance.
	(c)	Energy and Water Conservation Escrow Account. The seller, or the seller's authorized representative, may transfer responsibility for compliance with the minimum energy conservation measures of Section 1212 and the minimum water conservation measures of Section 12A10 to the buyer of the building if at the time of transfer of title:
		(1)	A valid energy inspection, within the meaning of Section 1205, and a valid water conservation inspection within the meaning of Section 12A09 have been made and the inspection form or forms filed with the Department of Building Inspection along with notification indicating that an escrow account has been set up pursuant to this Section and giving the escrow holder's name and address and the escrow number;
		(2)	A written agreement signed by the buyer and seller is deposited into the escrow containing the following;
			(i)	The buyer's agreement that the required energy and water conservation measures will be installed within 180 days of transfer of title,
			(ii)	The seller's agreement that funds equal to one percent of the purchase price indicated on the accepted purchase offer shall be retained by the escrow holder and disbursed as follow:
				(a)	Upon delivery to the escrow holder of a copy of the completed certificate of compliance as filed with the Department of Building Inspection within 180 days after the close of escrow, the escrow holder shall, upon written instructions of the buyer, disburse so much of these funds as are required to pay the provider(s) of the materials and labor used to bring the property into compliance with the provisions of this chapter and Chapter 12A and shall disburse any surplus thereafter remaining to the seller;
				(b)	If such certificate of compliance is not delivered to the escrow holder within 180 days after the close of escrow, all said funds shall be deposited into the Residential Energy Conservation Account of the Repair and Demolition Fund of the City and County of San Francisco established pursuant to Section 102.13 of the San Francisco Building Code (Part II, Chapter I of the San Francisco Municipal Code) to be used exclusively to bring the building into compliance with the provisions of this chapter and Chapter 12A, with any surplus funds to be returned to the seller once compliance is achieved. No funds shall be deposited in the Residential Energy Conservation Account under this Subsection as long as, in the case of the subject building: (A) an appeal is pending or an extension has been granted pursuant to Section 1213 of this chapter; (B) an appeal is pending pursuant to Section 12A11 of this Code; or (C) a complaint is pending in court on behalf of the buyer or seller, or an arbitration proceeding is underway between the buyer and seller, with respect to the disposition of the escrow fund for the purpose of completing energy or water conservation measures pursuant to this Code.
	(d)	Notice of the Requirements of This Ordinance. The seller, or the seller's authorized representative involved in the sale or exchange of residential building subject to the provisions of this chapter and Chapter 12A, shall give written notice of the requirements of this ordinance to the buyers. Prior to the effective date of this ordinance an informational brochure specifying the energy and water conservation requirements shall be made available by the Department of Building Inspection. Delivery of this brochure to the buyer shall satisfy the notice requirements of this Section. Failure to give notice as required by this Section shall not excuse or exempt the seller or buyer of a residential building from compliance with the requirements of this chapter and Chapter 12A.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 1212.  REQUIRED ENERGY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
	The following energy conservation measures are required by this ordinance for a residential building; provided, however, that if the owner proves, pursuant to Section 1213, that the application of any energy conservation measure is not cost-effective, that measure shall not be required.
	(a)	Building containing one or two dwelling units:
		(1)	Ceiling insulation to a minimum resistance level of R-19 over the entire accessible attic space, provided that the existing ceiling insulation is less than R-11. Before insulation is installed in a building not meeting this standard, dropped spaces in attic floors, such as those above stairwells, shall be sealed effectively to limit air infiltration. Installation of ceiling insulation shall be required to conform to Section 719 of the Building Code (Part II, Chapter I of the San Francisco Municipal Code).
		(2)	Weatherstripping of all doors, unless fire-rated, which lead to unheated areas so as effectively and reliably to limit air infiltration. Doors which cannot be weatherstripped without the replacement of the entire door or doorframe are exempted from this requirement, unless the door is, for other reasons, being repaired or replaced. The Director, in the guidelines, shall specify those types of weatherstripping which are acceptable. In determining which types of weatherstripping are acceptable, the Director shall consider, among other matters, whether the weatherstripping meets the energy conservation goals of this chapter and is cost-effective.
		(3)	An external water heater insulation blanket with a minimum installed thermal resistance of R-6 on accessible water heaters. Installation of external water heater insulation blankets shall meet any safety standards set by the Director in the guidelines. In addition, the first four feet of accessible hot water pipe leading from the heater shall be insulated to a minimum resistance value of R-4. If foam is used to meet the R-4 standard, it shall be a closed-cell type with a minimum wall thickness of three-quarters of an inch.
		(4)	Caulking or sealing of all accessible major cracks and joints and other openings in building exterior to reduce the loss of heated air or the entry of outside air where feasible. Sealing of all accessible major openings from the conditioned living space into unheated areas, including, but not limited to, those found around plumbing vent pipes, electrical wiring, or furnace flue pipes.
		(5)	Insulating all accessible supply and return heating and cooling system ducts and plenums, which are located in unheated areas, to a minimum resistance value of R-3 and sealing of all accessible duct and plenum joints with pressure-sensitive tape or mastic.
	(b)	Building containing three or more dwelling units:
		(1)	All measures specified in Subsection (a) of this Section to the extent applicable to the structure.
		(2)	Insulation of all accessible recirculating hot water, steam, or steam condensate return piping throughout the structure to a minimum resistance value of R-4 and all hot water storage tanks to a minimum resistance value of R-6;
		(3)	Cleaning and tuning of boiler units to improve combustion efficiency. Unless the boiler has been cleaned and tuned to ensure peak combustion efficiency within the last five years and bears a tag so certifying issued by a utility inspector or contractor regularly engaged in the field of combustion efficiency, the boiler shall be cleaned and tested for combustion efficiency and appropriate adjustments made to ensure peak combustion efficiency by such a utility inspector or a contractor, who shall post a tag on or near the boiler stating that a combustion efficiency test has been performed and peak efficiency has been obtained through adjustment of the boiler's controls and cleaning where needed, and the date the test was performed. In addition, all boilers shall have the permit required by Chapter 1, Schedule 1-M of the Building Code;
		(4)	Repair of all hot water and steam leaks on boiler units, including replacement of defective steam traps and valves;
		(5)	Time clock control of burner; and
		(6)	Any interim measures adopted by the Director pursuant to Section 1217 or 1218 of this chapter.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 1213.  APPEAL FROM RESULTS OF AN ENERGY INSPECTION.
	(a)	Appeal from Results of an Energy Inspection. Any person with an interest in the property subject to an energy inspection, who contests the determination of an energy inspector regarding required energy conservation measures or who claims that the application of a required energy conservation measure is not cost-effective may appeal said decision to the Director within 10 working days from the date the completed inspection form was filed with the Department of Building Inspection. The notice of appeal shall state, clearly and concisely, the grounds upon which the appeal is based. The burden of proof shall be on the appellant to demonstrate that the energy conservation measure is not required under this chapter or that it is not cost-effective. The determination of the Director shall be final and the issues decided by this determination may not be heard by the Abatement Appeals Board pursuant to the provisions of Section 1216 of this chapter.
	(b)	Filing Fee. Any appeal pursuant to Section 1214 shall be accompanied by payment of a filing fee.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1214.  AMORTIZATION IN RENTAL PROPERTY.
	(a)	Whenever amortization of capital improvements is required pursuant to the Residential Rent Stabilization and Arbitration Ordinance (Chapter 37, Section 37.7 of the Administrative Code), installation of energy conservation measures shall be deemed to be capital improvements within the meaning of Section 37.7 of the Residential Rent Stabilization and Arbitration Ordinance so long as such ordinance remains in effect.
	(b)	When required energy conservation expenditures form part of a RAP loan, expenditures shall be amortized over the term of the loan and rent increase will be subject to the RAP loan rent limits.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1215.  CIVIL REMEDIES.
	(a)	Abatement. Whenever the installation of an energy conservation measure in a residential building is required pursuant to this chapter and the energy conservation measure has not been installed within 180 days from the date of the energy inspection or, if there has been no energy inspection, within 180 days from the date the residential building was first required to comply with the provisions of this chapter, that residential building shall constitute a nuisance under the terms of Chapter 4 of this Code. The nuisance shall be abated by civil action pursuant to Section 201(e) of this Code, provided further that in no event shall any violation constitute a misdemeanor.
	(b)	Title Transfer. In addition, when an inspection and installation of conservation measures was required pursuant to this chapter as a result of a title transfer, civil action may be instituted by a buyer to require compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.
	(c)	Exceptions. In undertaking this program of energy inspections, the City and County of San Francisco is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers an employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury.
	No civil liability, based on this ordinance, shall ensue from claims that the performance of, nonperformance of, negligent performance of, untimely performance of, or failure to perform in a proper manner, an energy inspection or energy audit caused injury to any person where that inspection or audit is conducted by a utility, or representative of a utility, which offers an energy inspection or audit service for which no charge is made to the homeowner.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1216.  FEES.
	(a)	Fees. Reasonable fees shall be required to pay for, but not exceed, the costs of implementing this chapter and Chapter 12A. Such fees shall be established by the Board of Supervisors upon recommendation of the Director of the Department of Building Inspection and shall include:
		(1)	The cost of inspections performed by the Department of Building Inspection;
		(2)	The cost of the appeal and request for exemption process;
		(3)	The cost of filing and processing documents at the Department of Building Inspection;

		(4)	The cost of printing forms and informational brochures by the Department of Building Inspection;
		(5)	Other expenses incurred by the City and County of San Francisco in implementing this ordinance.
	(b)	Fee Schedule. See Building Code Section 110A, Table 1A-N, for the applicable fees.
	(c)	Fee Review. The Director of the Department of Building Inspection shall cause an annual report of fees to be made and filed with the Controller as set forth in Section 3.17-2 of the San Francisco Administrative Code. The Controller shall review the report and file it with the Board of Supervisors along with proposed ordinance readjusting the fee rates as necessary.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 1217.  RULES.
	(a)	The Director of the Department of Building Inspection shall adopt and, from time to time, may amend reasonable rules and guidelines implementing the provisions and intent of this ordinance. A public hearing shall be held prior to the adoption, or any amendment of the rules and guidelines. In addition to notices required by law, the Director shall send written notice, at least 15 days prior to the hearing, to any utility servicing San Francisco who participates in the California Plan for Residential Conservation Service and to any interested party who sends a written request to the Department for notice of hearings on energy conservation requirements.
	(b)	In developing such rules and guidelines, the Director shall consider, inter alia, the standards of the California Plan for the Residential Conservation Service with the purpose of coordinating with local utilities the types of products, installation standards, and inspection procedures which will satisfy the requirements of this Article. Such rules may relate, but are not limited to:
		(1)	Acceptable energy conservation materials and devices;
		(2)	Acceptable installation practices;
		(3)	Processing of appeals;
		(4)	Payment of fees; and
		(5)	Inspection procedures.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1218.  INTERIM RULES.
	The Board of Supervisors finds that, currently, the information available as to what additional energy-conservation measures are cost-effective in buildings containing three or more dwelling units is incomplete. The Board of Supervisors therefore authorizes the Director of the Department of Building Inspection to adopt additional interim requirements for the installation of energy conservation measures in residential buildings containing three or more dwelling units in the following manner:
	(a)	The Director shall hold a public hearing at which testimony may be given regarding the proposed interim requirement, prior to making a determination. Notice of the hearing shall be sent as provided in Section 1217(a).
	(b)	The Director shall then adopt the proposed interim requirement if he or she determines that the measure is cost-effective within the meaning of this chapter and has a simple economic payback not exceeding five years, according to the best information available. In developing such requirements, the Director shall closely coordinate with ongoing utility programs and the California Energy Commission.
	(c)	Within two years of adoption of any interim requirement, the Director shall make a final determination as to whether the interim requirement is cost-effective. If the Director determines that the interim requirement is not cost-effective, then the requirement shall be canceled. If the Director determines that the interim requirement is cost-effective, the Director shall present a report on the interim requirement and proposed legislation to implement the requirement to the Board of Supervisors prior to the expiration of the two-year period. A public hearing shall be held on the proposed legislation and the Board of Supervisors shall give notice in the same manner as provided in Section 1217(a).
	(d)	The interim requirement shall remain in effect for 90 days beyond the expiration of the two-year period. If the Board of Supervisors does not pass the proposed legislation, the interim requirement will expire at the end of the 90-day period.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1219.  ORDINANCE REVIEW.
	A public hearing shall be held one year after all provisions of this ordinance have become effective for the purpose of reviewing the provisions and operation of this ordinance.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1220.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any provisions or clause of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional or to be otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions, and clauses of this ordinance are declared to be severable.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
Chapter 12A
RESIDENTIAL WATER CONSERVATION
Sec. 12A01.Title.Sec. 12A02.Findings.Sec. 12A03.Intent.Sec. 12A04.Definitions.Sec. 12A05.Water Conservation Inspections.Sec. 12A06.Proof of Compliance with Minimum Water Conservation Measures.Sec. 12A07.Postponement of Requirements.Sec. 12A08.Water Conservation Requirements Upon Major Improvement, Metering Conversion, Residential Condominium Conversion, or Complete Inspection.Sec. 12A09.Water Conservation Inspection Requirements at Transfer of Title.Sec. 12A10.Required Water Conservation Measures.Sec. 12A11.Appeal from Results of a Water Conservation Inspection.Sec. 12A12.Civil Remedies.Sec. 12A13.Severability.
SEC. 12A01.  TITLE.
	This chapter shall be known as the Residential Water Conservation Ordinance.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 12A02.  FINDINGS.
	The Board of Supervisors finds that:
	(a)	Demand management measures, including feasible, cost effective conservation, are a proven method of reducing water demand in urban areas.
	(b)	The application of proven water conservation measures will allow San Francisco's economy and population to prosper without placing additional demands on this valuable resource. Retrofitting water using devices such as water efficient showerheads, faucet aerators, and water closets is one of the most cost effective ways of reducing the City's potable water use.
	(c)	As a signatory to the California Urban Water Conservation Council Memorandum of Understanding Regarding Urban Water Conservation, the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission has agreed to actively promote the replacement of high water volume water closets and showerheads, among other water using devices, with more efficient models in San Francisco. The purpose of this section is to reduce demand for potable water within the City and County of San Francisco by establishing water efficiency standards for plumbing fixtures. Water saved from these programs will help to ensure a reliable water supply for customers both within and outside of San Francisco. This ordinance is part of a continuing program to achieve the City's goal of reducing water consumption in all residential, commercial, industrial and municipal buildings in the City and County of San Francisco.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 12A03.  INTENT.
	It is the intent of this ordinance to conserve existing water supplies by reducing the overall demand for water in residential buildings by requiring the installation of water conservation devices in all residential buildings, except for tourist hotels and motels, upon the occurrence of specific events such as when the building undergoes major improvements, when there is a meter conversion, when there is a condominium conversion, and when there is a transfer of title.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 12A04.  DEFINITIONS.
	In addition to the definitions contained in Chapters 4 and 12 of this Code, for the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them by this Section.
	(a)	Qualified Inspector. A qualified inspector is an inspector defined in Chapter 13A, Section 1314A, of the San Francisco Building Code.
	(b)	Water Conservation Inspection. Inspection of a residential building for compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.
	(c)	Residential Building. A residential building is as defined in 1204(i) of this Code.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 12A05.  WATER CONSERVATION INSPECTIONS.
	A water conservation inspection which satisfies the requirements of this chapter shall be performed concurrently with the energy inspection required by Chapter 12 of this Code and must be performed by a qualified inspector.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 12A06.  PROOF OF COMPLIANCE WITH MINIMUM WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
	(a)	Inspection Form. The Department of Building Inspection shall provide a standardized form, that may be paper and/or electronic, suitable for conducting a valid water conservation inspection and certifying compliance with the requirements of this ordinance, which forms may be paper and/or electronic. Said form may be combined with the energy inspection form required by Section 1207 of this Code. The inspection form shall be completed and signed by any qualified inspector, furnished to the building owner or the owner's authorized agent, and submitted to the Department of Building Inspection within 15 days from the date of completing the inspection.
	(b)	Certificate of Compliance. When all of the water conservation requirements have been met, a certificate of compliance shall be submitted to the Department of Building Inspection and recorded. Proof of compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall be accomplished by submitting the completed certificate of compliance to the Department of Building Inspection, which shall maintain either a paper or electronic copy. A copy of the completed certificate of compliance shall be recorded by the building owner, or the building owner's authorized representative, with the San Francisco County Recorder's Office. In the event of a title transfer, it shall be recorded prior to or concurrent with the transfer of title.
	(c)	Public Record. Water conservation inspection results and certificates of compliance shall be public information, shall be available for inspection by any interested person during regular business hours at the Department of Building Inspection, and may be made available electronically via the internet
	(d)	Fees. Reasonable fees may be required to pay for, but not exceed, the cost of implementing this chapter and shall be established pursuant to Section 1216.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 12A07.  POSTPONEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS.
	Application of inspection and water conservation requirements for any residential building shall be postponed for one year from the date of application for a demolition permit for said building. If the residential building is demolished and Certificate of Completion issued by the Department of Building Inspection before the end of the one-year postponement, the requirements of this chapter shall not apply. If the residential building is not demolished after the expiration of one year, the provisions of this chapter shall apply, even though the demolition permit is still in effect or a new demolition permit has been issued.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 12A08.  WATER CONSERVATION REQUIREMENTS UPON MAJOR IMPROVEMENT, METERING CONVERSION, RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION, OR COMPLETE INSPECTION.
	A valid water conservation inspection pursuant to Section 12A05 and subsequent compliance with required water conservation measures pursuant to Section 12A10 shall be required of a residential building concurrently with the energy conservation inspection and compliance requirements set forth in Section 1210 and 1211 of this Code.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 12A09.  WATER CONSERVATION INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS AT TRANSFER OF TITLE.
	Prior to any transfer of title as a result of sale or exchange of any residential building subject to the provisions of this chapter, the seller or the seller's authorized representative shall obtain a valid water conservation inspection pursuant to Section 12A05 and shall install all applicable water conservation measures required by Section 12A10 as enumerated in the water conservation inspection form. Compliance with the Section shall be concurrent with the energy conservation inspection required by Section 1211 of this Code and shall be in accordance with the provisions set forth in said Section, including but not limited to the option to transfer responsibility for compliance with applicable water conservation measures required by Section 12A10 to the buyer through an Energy Conservation Escrow Account pursuant to Section 1211(c).
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 12A10.  REQUIRED WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
	The following water conservation measures are required for residential buildings as defined in Section 1204(i) of this Code, notwithstanding Section 1209 of this Code:
	(a)	Replace all showerheads having a maximum flow rate exceeding 2.5 gallons per minute, with showerheads not exceeding the maximum flow rate established by the California Energy Commission, as set forth in the Appliance Efficiency Regulations, California Code of Regulations, Title 20, Sections 1601 to 1608, as it may be amended. Showers shall have no more than one showerhead per valve. For purposes of this subsection, the term "showerheads" includes rain heads, rain tiles, or any other fitting that transmits water for purposes of showering.
	(b)	Replace all faucets and faucet aerators having a maximum flow rate exceeding 2.2 gallons per minute at a water pressure of 60 pounds per square inch, with plumbing fittings not exceeding the maximum flow rate established by the California Energy Commission, as set forth in the Appliance Efficiency Regulations, California Code of Regulations, Title 20, Sections 1601 to 1608, as it may be amended.
	(c)	Replace all water closets that have a rated water consumption exceeding 1.6 gallons per flush with fixtures not exceeding the maximum rated water consumption established in the San Francisco Plumbing Code, Chapter 4, Section 402.2, as it may be amended. A seller of a residential building may request an exemption from replacing a water closet in the building if the replacement would detract from the historical integrity of the building, as determined by the Director of the Department of Building Inspection pursuant to the California Historical Building Code and Section 12A11(b).
	(d)	Leak repair. All water leaks shall be located and repaired.
		(1)	For residential buildings with one and two units, water meter registration shall be used to determine the existence of leaks. Compliance is achieved if there is no meter movement for ten minutes while all household fixtures are shut off.
		(2)	For residential buildings with three or more units, visual inspection or water meter registration shall be used. If water meter registration is used, compliance is achieved if there is no meter movement for ten minutes while all household fixtures are shut off.
		(3)	In all residential buildings, all tank type water closets shall be tested with leak detector tablets or dye to detect slow valve leaks, and all flushometer type fixtures shall be visually checked for proper operation with respect to timing and leaks.
	(e)	An exemption from the requirement for showerheads listed in Paragraph (a) of this Section will be granted for a residence upon filing with the Public Utilities Commission a letter from a licensed physician specifying a valid medical reason on the part of the occupant of that residence for non-compliance. An exemption under this Section shall continue in force until the individual qualifying for the exemption no longer resides at the exempted property, or until the medical condition qualifying for the exemption terminates. Within one year following the departure of the individual qualifying for the exemption from the exempted residence or termination of the medical condition, all showerheads in the property shall be replaced in compliance with Section 12A10(a). Upon transfer of title of any building subject to an exemption in whole or in part under this Section, the provisions of Section 12A09 shall apply; however, proof of an exemption under this Section shall be sufficient to show compliance with the requirements of this chapter as to low-flow showerhead and/or an exempted residence within a multiple-family residential building. An exemption for a single residence under this Section shall not constitute an exemption for an entire multiple-family building wherein the single residence is located.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 361-94, App. 10/19/94; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 12A11.  APPEAL FROM RESULTS OF A WATER CONSERVATION INSPECTION.
	(a)	Any person with an interest in the property subject to a water conservation inspection who contests the determination of a qualified inspector regarding required water conservation measures may appeal said decision to the Director of the Department of Building Inspection within ten working days from the date the completed inspection form was filed with the Department of Building Inspection. The notice of appeal shall state, clearly and concisely, the grounds upon which the appeal is based. The burden of proof shall be on the appellant to demonstrate that the water conservation measure is not required under this chapter. The determination of the Director may be appealed to the Building Inspection Commission pursuant to the notice and appeal procedures established in the Administrative Code Chapter 77.
	(b)	Any person with an interest in the property subject to a water conservation inspection who claims an exemption pursuant to Section 12A10(c) of this Chapter may request a determination of exemption from the Director of the Department of Building Inspection by filing the request and stating the basis for the claim. The burden of proof shall be on the applicant to demonstrate the qualifications for the exemption. The determination of the Director may be appealed to the Building Inspection Commission pursuant to the procedures for notice and appeal established in the Administrative Code Chapter 77.
	(c)	Any appeal or request for exemption to the Director filed pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by payment of a filing fee, pursuant to Section 1216 of this Code.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 12A12.  CIVIL REMEDIES.
	(a)	Remedies. The remedies for failure to comply with the requirements of Section 12A08 and 12A09 of this chapter shall be as set forth in Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1215 of this Code for violations of the Residential Energy Conservation Ordinance.
	(b)	Exceptions. In undertaking this program of water conservation inspections, the City and County of San Francisco is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its offices and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person who claims that such breach proximately caused injury.
	No civil liability, based on this ordinance, shall ensue from claims that the performance of, nonperformance of, negligent performance of, untimely performance of, or failure to perform in a proper manner, a water conservation inspection or audit shall cause injury to any person where that inspection or audit is conducted by a utility, or representative of a utility, which offers inspection, water-use survey or audit service for which no charge is made to the homeowner.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
SEC. 12A13.  SEVERABILITY.
	If any provision or clause of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional or to be otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions, and clauses of this ordinance are declared to be severable.
(Added by Ord. 185-91, App. 5/15/91; amended by Ord. 346-91, App. 10/19/91; Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007; Ord. 76-09, App. 5/14/2009, Eff. 7/1/2009)
Chapter 13
MAINTENANCE, SANITATION AND REPAIR
Sec. 1301.Painting.Sec. 1302.Courts and Shafts.Sec. 1303.Wallpaper.Sec. 1304.Garbage Receptacles.Sec. 1305.Garbage Receptacle Compartment.Sec. 1306.Sanitation.Sec. 1307.Deposit of Rubbish, etc.Sec. 1308.Bedding.Sec. 1309.Towels.Sec. 1310.Dangerous Articles.Sec. 1311.Caretaker.
SEC. 1301.  PAINTING.
	The walls and ceiling of every room, lobby, entryway or hallway in an apartment house or hotel shall be well maintained. Repairs, paint or paper shall be applied as often as may be necessary to maintain clean and sanitary walls and ceilings free from mildew, dampness and vermin.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1302.  COURTS AND SHAFTS.
	The walls of courts and shafts shall be painted as often as may be necessary to maintain weatherproofing, free from dampness and mildew.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1303.  WALLPAPER.
	All thicknesses of wallpaper placed upon any wall, partition or ceiling of any room in any apartment house or hotel shall be well maintained, free of dampness and mildew. If any wall, partition or ceiling with two thicknesses of wallpaper in any such room is to be repapered, the old wallpaper shall be removed. Painting over wallpaper shall be permissible.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1304.  GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.
	(a)	A sufficient number of receptacles with close-fitting covers for garbage refuse, ashes and rubbish as may be considered necessary by the Director or the Department of Public Health, or an approved garbage chute or shaft, shall be kept in a clean condition by the following persons:
		(1)	In the case of a receptacle in a hotel, by the owner or person in charge of the hotel;
		(2)	In the case of a receptacle in an apartment house or dwelling, by the person in charge of the building, occupants or tenants of the building;
		(3)	In the case of a chute or shaft in any building, by the person in charge of the building.
	(b)	Garbage cans in apartment houses and hotels shall be of noncombustible construction. Plastic garbage cans will be acceptable when the following conditions have been met:
		(1)	The room in which the can(s) are contained is fully sprinklered;
		(2)	The garbage chute, if any, is sprinklered in accordance with the Building Code;
		(3)	The garbage can storage room is constructed in accordance with Section 711.5 of the Building Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1305.  GARBAGE RECEPTACLE COMPARTMENT.
	Every closet or compartment in a building used for storing a garbage receptacle shall be lined on all its sides and on the inside of all its doors with galvanized steel, with all joints made tight.
	For garbage chute shaft construction, see Section 711 of the Building Code.
	For garbage room construction, see Section 707 of this Code.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 350-95, App. 11/3/95; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1306.  SANITATION.
	Each room, hallway, passageway, stairway, wall, partition, ceiling, floor, skylight, glass windows, door, carpet, rug, matting, window curtain, water closet compartment or room, toilet room, bathroom, slop-sink room, wash room, plumbing fixture, drain, roof, closet, basement, yard, court, lot, and the premises of every building shall be kept in every part clean, sanitary, and free from all accumulation of debris, filth, rubbish, garbage, vermin, mold and mildew and offensive matter. Those portions of the residential building identified by this Section that can no longer by cleaned or made sanitary shall be replaced in an appropriate manner.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 192-02, App. 9/17/2002; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1307.  DEPOSIT OF RUBBISH, ETC.
	No person shall do, or permit or cause another person to do, any of the following:
	(a)	Deposit any swell, garbage, bottles, ashes, cans, or other improper substance in, or in any way obstruct, any water-closet, sink, slop hopper, bathtub, shower, catchbasin, or plumbing fixture connection or drain;
	(b)	Put any filth, urine or other foul matter in any place other than the place provided; or
	(c)	Keep any filth, urine or other foul matter in any room, or elsewhere in or about the premises, of any building for such length of time as will result in the creation of a nuisance.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1308.  BEDDING.
	In every apartment house or hotel every part of every bed, including the mattresses, sheets, blankets and bedding, shall be kept in a clean, dry and sanitary condition, free from filth, urine or other foul matter, and from the infestation of lice, bedbugs or other insects. The bed linen of a bed in a hotel shall be changed as often as a new guest occupies the bed.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1309.  TOWELS.
	No roller or public towel shall be kept or maintained in a hotel for common use.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1310.  DANGEROUS ARTICLES.
	Neither any article that is dangerous or detrimental to life or to the health of the occupants; or any feed, hay, straw, excelsior, cotton, paper stock, rags, junk, or any material that may create a fire hazard, shall be kept, stored or handled in any part of an apartment house or hotel, or the lot on which such building is situated, except upon a written permit obtained from the officer or agency authorized by law to issue the permit. Every permit shall be made in duplicate, and a copy shall remain on file in the office of the officer or agency issuing it. Every filed copy constitutes a public record.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)
SEC. 1311.  CARETAKER.
	A janitor, housekeeper or other responsible person shall reside upon the premises and shall have charge of every apartment house in which there are 16 or more apartments and of every hotel in which there are 12 or more guestrooms, in the event that the owner of any such apartment house or hotel does not reside upon said premises. If the owner does not reside upon the premises of any apartment house in which there are more than four but less than 16 apartments, a notice stating his name and address, or the name and address of his agent in charge of the apartment house, shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
(Added by Ord. 399-89, App. 11/6/89; amended by Ord. 161-92, App. 6/4/92; Ord. 256-07, App. 11/6/2007)

MECHANICAL CODE
2013 Edition
The San Francisco Mechanical Code is current through Ordinances approved through December 31, 2013.



Copyright © 2014
by
THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
A Municipal Corporation

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed by any means or stored in a database or retrieval system without prior written permission of the City and County of San Francisco.
PUPLISHER'S NOTE
	The full 2013 San Francisco Mechanical Code consists of the 2012 Uniform Mechanical Code, as amended by the 2013 California Mechanical Code, and as further amended by these San Francisco amendments.
	The San Francisco Mechanical Code amendments contained herein are designed to be used in conjunction with the 2013 California Mechanical Code.
	The San Francisco Mechanical Code amendments contained herein were adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco on November 5, 2013, Ordinance 257-13, effective January 1, 2014.

2013 California Mechanical Code
(Which incorporates the 2012 Uniform Mechanical Code)}+Complete
San Francisco
Mechanical Code2013 San Francisco Amendments
Supplements to this Code and complete copies of all six
Building Inspection Commission (BIC) Codes
(Building, Electrical, Green Building, Housing, Mechanical, and Plumbing)
can be ordered from:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
432 Walnut Street, Suite 1200
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202-3909
(800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
Text Format:
	The text in this publication is formatted to allow the user to quickly and easily determine the source of the included material. Language derived from the 2013 California Code that is unchanged by local amendment is printed in shaded text (see below). Language constituting San Francisco amendments to the California Code is printed in unformatted (or "plain") text. In either case, bold and/or italic typefaces may be used as appropriate for emphasis, etc. See below for examples. 
	To further simplify use of the San Francisco amendments with corresponding sections of the 2013 California Code, explanatory remarks appearing in italics are provided (in boxes at the beginning of affected provisions) indicating whether the San Francisco amendment to the California Code is adding, revising, or replacing a section or portion of a section.
	To summarize:
Explanatory remarks are boxed and italicized.
	Unchanged language from the 2013 California Code is shaded, and may include bold and/or italicized formatting.
	San Francisco amendments are printed in unformatted (“plain”) text, and may include bold and/or italicized formatting.
Historical Notations:
	Language which has been added, amended, or deleted from the 2013 publication of the San Francisco Mechanical Code is indicated with an historical notation, setting forth the ordinance number and date of adoption.

Chapter 1
ADMINISTRATION
Division I
CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATION
See Division II Administration for San Francisco Mechanical Code administrative provisions. 
No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments
Division II
ADMINISTRATION
Part I – GENERAL
SECTION 101.0 – TITLE
101.1  Revise this section as follows:
101.1  Title. These regulations shall be known as the 2013 San Francisco Mechanical Code, may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "this code."
101.3  Add the following paragraph:
	Wherever in this code reference is made to the appendix, the provisions of the appendix shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
SECTION 103.0 – ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIVALENCY
103.2 Add the following section:
103.2  Fees. See Building Code Section 110A, Table 1A-J – Miscellaneous Fees – for applicable fees.
Part II – ORGANIZATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION 106.0 – POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION
106.1  Revise this section as follows:
106.1  General. The Authority Having Jurisdiction is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all provisions of this code. For such purposes, the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall have the powers of a law enforcement officer. The Authority Having Jurisdiction, when necessary, may call upon the Police Department and other city agencies for aid or assistance in carrying out or enforcing any of the provisions of this code.
106.3  Revise this section as follows:
106.3  Right of Entry. When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code or other codes or ordinances, or when the Authority Having Jurisdiction has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building or upon a premises a condition which is contrary to or in violation of this code or other codes or ordinances that makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall be permitted to enter the building or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this code or other codes or ordinances, provided that where such building or premises be occupied that credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested. Where such building or premises be unoccupied, the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. Where entry is refused, the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
106.10  Add the following section:
106.10  Authority Having Jurisdiction May Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall have the power to render interpretations of this code and to adopt and enforce rules and supplemental regulations to clarify the application of its provisions.  Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformance with the intent and purpose of this code. Such rules and regulations, commonly referred to as "Code Rulings" and "Administrative Bulletins," supplemental to this code, shall not take effect until approved by the Building Inspection Commission and signed by the Authority Having Jurisdiction except in unusual circumstances where the Authority Having Jurisdiction has determined there is an immediate need to protect the public health and safety. When the Director finds that such circumstances exist, the Authority Having Jurisdiction may order immediate enforcement of a particular rule or regulation. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall arrange for a subscription service to such rules and regulations, the entire cost of which is to be borne by the subscribers.
106.11  Add the following section:
106.11  Code Revisions. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall transmit to the Building Inspection Commission, at intervals not exceeding three years, recommendations for changes to this code, based on studies of the following:
	1.	Requests of the Board of Examiners for variances from this code, and for approvals of alternate materials, alternate designs and methods of construction.
	2.	Code changes recommended by the Board of Examiners.
	3.	Code changes recommended by the Code Advisory Committee or other bodies subordinate to the Building Inspection Commission.
	4.	Results obtained and problems encountered from legal actions taken to correct code violations.
	5.	Changes or improvements in materials, methods of construction or design and changes proposed by interested persons.
	6.	Investigations of fire and structural damage to buildings, and of complaints of unsatisfactory mechanical system performance.
	7.	Periodic changes to the California Mechanical Code and other State regulations which may affect this code.
	8.	Administrative Bulletins and Code Rulings currently in effect.
	9.	Violations of this code found on inspections or investigations.
SECTION 108.0 – BOARD OF EXAMINERS
108.0  Replace this title and entire section as follows:
	Applicants may appeal decisions made by the Department of Building Inspection to the Board of Examiners regarding approval of alternate materials, methods and types of construction and for variances from the provisions of this code. See Building Code Section 105A.1.
SECTION 109.0 – VIOLATIONS
109.0  Add the following three sections:
109.2  Violations. Any person, the owner or the owner's authorized agent, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or resists or opposes the execution of any of the provisions of this code, shall be liable for a civil penalty, not to exceed $500 for each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, which penalty shall be assessed and recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the people of the City and County of San Francisco by the City Attorney in any court of competent jurisdiction. Any penalty assessed and recovered in an action brought pursuant to this paragraph shall be paid to the City Treasurer and credited to the Department of Building Inspection's Special Fund.
109.3  Any person, the owner or the owner's authorized agent, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists or opposes the execution of any of the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, unless otherwise provided in this code, and shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day such violation, disobedience, omission, neglect or refusal shall continue. Any person who shall do any work in violation of any of the provisions of this code, and any person having charge of such work who shall permit it to be done, shall be liable for the penalty provided.
109.4  It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the posting of any notice provided for in this code, or to tear down or mutilate any such notice so posted by the Department of Building Inspection.
Part III – PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
SECTION 111.0 – PERMITS
111.2  Add the following item:
	(6)	Replacement water heaters of not more than 100 gallons (378.54 liters) capacity are exempt from building permits when a new flue is not installed, but shall require plumbing permits.
SECTION 112.0 – APPLICATION FOR PERMIT
112.1  Replace this section as follows:
112.1  Application. Applications for permits to perform regulated mechanical work shall conform to the applicable requirements as set forth in Chapter 1A of the Building Code and Chapter 1, Division II of the Plumbing Code.
SECTION 113.0 – PERMIT ISSUANCE
113.1 Replace this section as follows:
113.1  General. Permit processing and issuance for regulated mechanical work shall conform to the applicable requirements as set forth in Chapter 1A of the Building Code and Chapter 1, Division II of the Plumbing Code.
113.4  Replace this section as follows:
113.4  Permit Expiration. Mechanical permits expire per Section 106A.4.4 of the San Francisco Building Code. Permit fees may be partially refunded if a written cancellation request is made to the Building Official prior to commencement of the permitted work and within 90 days of the date of permit issuance. See Section 110A, Table 1A-R – Refunds – of the Building Code for refunds.
SECTION 114.0 – FEES
114.0-.6  Replace this entire section with the following section:
114.1  General. Fees for regulated mechanical work shall be as set forth in Chapter 1A of the Building Code and in Chapter 1, Division II of the Plumbing Code.
Chapter 2
DEFINITIONS
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments 
Chapter 3
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Chapter 4
VENTILATION AIR SUPPLY
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Chapter 5
EXHAUST SYSTEMS
SECTION 510.0 – EXHAUST DUCT SYSTEMS
510.8  Modify title of this section as follows:
510.8  Termination of Type I Exhaust System.
510.9  Add a new section as follows:
510.9  Termination of Type II Exhaust System. Exhaust outlets for ducts serving Type II hoods over heat-processing equipment shall terminate at least 10 feet (3048 mm) from adjacent property lines or air intake openings into any building, and shall be located at least 10 feet (3048 mm) above adjoining grade level.
510.9  Renumber section as follows:
510.10  Solid-Fuel Duct Systems.
Chapter 6
DUCT SYSTEMS
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Chapter 7
COMBUSTION AIR
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Chapter 8
CHIMNEYS AND VENTS
SECTION 802.0 – VENTING OF APPLIANCES
SECTION 802.6 – GAS VENTS
802.6.2  Modify the first sentence of this section as follows:
802.6.2  Additional Termination Requirements. As gas vent shall terminate at least four (4) feet (1219 mm) from a property line, except a public way and in accordance with one of the following:
	. . .
SECTION 802.8 – THROUGH-THE-WALL VENT TERMINATIONS
802.8.1  Modify the first sentence of this section as follows:
802.8.1  Termination. A mechanical draft venting system shall terminate at least four (4) feet (1219 mm) from a property line, except a public way and not less than 3 feet (914 mm) above a forced air inlet located within 10 feet (3048 mm).  . . .

Chapter 9
INSTALLATION OF SPECIFIC APPLIANCES
SECTION 918.0 – INCINERATORS, COMMERCIAL - INDUSTRIAL
918.1  Add the following sentence as a second paragraph:
	The operation and installation of incinerators shall also comply with the regulations of the Bay Area Air Quality Management District.
Chapter 10
STEAM AND HOT WATER BOILERS
SECTION 1021.0 – INSPECTIONS AND TESTS
1021.1  Revise this section as follows:
1021.1  General. An installation for which a permit is required shall not be put into service until it has been certified by a licensed boiler contractor or inspected by an approved insuring company inspector and an operating permit has been issued. It shall be the duty of the owner or his authorized representative to notify the Authority Having Jurisdiction that the installation has been certified or inspected. It also shall be the duty of the owner or his authorized representative to post in a conspicuous position on the installation a notice in substantially the following form: "Warning! This installation has not been inspected and approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction and shall not be covered or concealed until so inspected and approved," and it shall be unlawful for anyone other than the Authority Having Jurisdiction to remove such notice. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall require such tests as it deems necessary to determine that the installation complies with the provision of this section. Such test shall be made by the owner or his authorized representative in the presence of the Authority Having Jurisdiction.
	Exception: On installations designed and supervised by a registered professional engineer, the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall have the authority to permit inspection and testing by such engineer.
	[-]
SECTION 1022.0 – OPERATING PERMIT
1022.1  Revise this section as follows:
1022.1  General. It shall be unlawful to operate a boiler or pressure vessel without first obtaining a valid operating permit to do so from the Authority Having Jurisdiction.  Such permit shall be displayed in a conspicuous place adjacent to the boiler or pressure vessel. The operating permit shall not be issued until the equipment has been certified as complying with State of California Building Safety Orders by a licensed boiler contractor, by employees of an approved insuring company holding commissions from the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors or by a registered professional engineer.
	Exception: The operation only of steam-heating boilers, low-pressure hot-water-heating boilers, hot-water supply boilers, and pressure vessels in Group R Occupancies of less than six units and in Group U occupancies.
SECTION 1023.0 – MAINTENANCE INSPECTION
1023.1  Revise this section as follows:
1023.1  General. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall require an inspection of boilers and pressure vessels operated under permit in accordance with ASHRAE/ACCA 180 at such intervals as deemed necessary, but not less frequently than noted below.
1023.5  Revise the second paragraph as follows:
	Inspection of boilers and pressure vessels may be made by licensed C-4 Boiler Contractors and, when covered by insurance shall be permitted to be made by employees of the insuring company holding commissions from the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors, subject to approval of the Authority Having Jurisdiction. Approved insuring company inspectors shall make reports on prescribed forms on inspections authorized by the Authority Having Jurisdiction. The reports shall be filed in the Authority Having Jurisdiction office. Company inspectors shall notify the Authority Having Jurisdiction of suspension of insurance because of dangerous conditions, new insurance in effect, and discontinuance of insurance coverage, or any unsafe conditions requiring correction.
Chapter 11
REFRIGERATION
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Chapter 12
HYDRONICS
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Chapter 13
FUEL GAS PIPING
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Chapter 14
PROCESS PIPING
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Chapter 15
SOLAR SYSTEMS
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Chapter 16
STATIONARY POWER PLANTS
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Chapter 17
REFERENCED STANDARDS
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Appendix B
PROCEDURES TO BE FOLLOWED TO PLACE GAS EQUIPMENT IN OPERATION
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Appendix C
INSTALLATION AND TESTING OF OIL (LIQUID) FUEL-FIRED EQUIPMENT
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.
Appendix D
UNIT CONVERSION TABLES
	No San Francisco Mechanical Code Amendments.


PLUMBING CODE
2013 Edition
The San Francisco Plumbing Code is current through Ordinances approved through December 31, 2013.



Copyright © 2014
by
THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
A Municipal Corporation

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed by any means or stored in a database or retrieval system without prior written permission of the City and County of San Francisco.
PUPLISHER'S NOTE
	The full 2013 San Francisco Plumbing Code consists of the 2012 Uniform Plumbing Code, as amended by the 2013 California Plumbing Code, and as further amended by these San Francisco amendments.
	The San Francisco Plumbing Code amendments contained herein are designed to be used in conjunction with the 2013 California Plumbing Code.
	The San Francisco Plumbing Code amendments contained herein were adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco on November 5, 2013, by Ordinance 258-13, effective January 1, 2014.

2013 California Plumbing Code
(Which incorporates the 2012 Uniform Plumbing Code)}+Complete
San Francisco
Plumbing Code2013 San Francisco Amendments
Supplements to this Code and complete copies of all six
Building Inspection Commission (BIC) Codes
(Building, Electrical, Green Building, Housing, Mechanical, and Plumbing)
can be ordered from:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
432 Walnut Street, Suite 1200
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202-3909
(800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
Text Format:
	The text in this publication is formatted to allow the user to quickly and easily determine the source of the included material. Language derived from the 2013 California Code that is unchanged by local amendment is printed in shaded text (see below). Language constituting San Francisco amendments to the California Code is printed in unformatted (or "plain") text. In either case, bold and/or italic typefaces may be used as appropriate for emphasis, etc. See below for examples. 
	To further simplify use of the San Francisco amendments with corresponding sections of the 2013 California Code, explanatory remarks appearing in italics are provided (in boxes at the beginning of affected provisions) indicating whether the San Francisco amendment to the California Code is adding, revising, or replacing a section or portion of a section.
	To summarize:
Explanatory remarks are boxed and italicized.
	Unchanged language from the 2013 California Code is shaded, and may include bold and/or italicized formatting.
	San Francisco amendments are printed in unformatted (“plain”) text, and may include bold and/or italicized formatting.
Historical Notations:
	Language which has been added, amended, or deleted from the 2013 publication of the San Francisco Plumbing Code is indicated with an historical notation, setting forth the ordinance number and date of adoption.

Chapter 1
ADMINISTRATION
Division I
CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATION
No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments
Division II
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 101.0 – GENERAL
101.1  Revise this section as follows:
101.1  Title. This document shall be known as the "2013 San Francisco Plumbing Code," may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "this code."
SECTION 102.0 – ORGANIZATION AND ENFORCEMENT
102.2  Add the following to the end of this section:
The Authority Having Jurisdiction, when necessary, may call upon the Police Department and other City and County of San Francisco agencies for aid or assistance in carrying out or enforcing any of the provisions of this code.
102.2.1  Revise the first paragraph of this section as follows:
102.2.1  Right of Entry. Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code or other codes or ordinances, or where the Authority Having Jurisdiction has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building or upon a premises a condition or violation of this code or other codes or ordinances that makes the building or premises unsafe, insanitary, dangerous or hazardous, the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall be permitted to enter the building or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed upon the Authority Having Jurisdiction by this code or other codes or ordinances, provided that where such building or premises is occupied, the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. Where such building or premises is unoccupied, the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. Where entry is refused, the Authority Having Jurisdiction has recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
102.2.3  Revise this section as follows:
102.2.3  Authority to Disconnect Utilities in Emergencies. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall have the authority to disconnect a plumbing system to a building, structure or equipment regulated by this code in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. For notification procedures, see Section 102A.16 of the Building Code.
102.2.6  Add the following section:
102.2.6  Rules and Regulations. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall have the power to render interpretations of this code and to adopt and enforce rules and supplemental regulations to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformance with the intent and purpose of this code. Such rules and regulations, commonly referred to as "Code Rulings" and "Administrative Bulletins" supplemental to this code, shall not take effect until approved by the Building Inspection Commission and signed by the Authority Having Jurisdiction except in unusual circumstances where the Authority Having Jurisdiction has determined that there is an immediate need to protect the public health and safety. When the Authority Having Jurisdiction finds that such circumstances exist, the Authority Having Jurisdiction may order immediate enforcement of a particular rule or regulation. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall arrange for a subscription service to such rules and regulations, the entire cost of which is to be borne by the subscribers.
102.2.7  Add the following section:
102.2.7  Code Revisions. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall transmit to the Building Inspection Commission, at intervals not exceeding three years, recommendations for changes to this code, based on studies of the following:
	1.	Requests of the Board of Examiners for variances from this code, and for approvals of alternate materials, alternate designs and methods of construction.
	2.	Code changes recommended by the Board of Examiners.
	3.	Code changes recommended by the Code Advisory Committee or other bodies subordinate to the Building Inspection Commission.
	4.	Results obtained and problems encountered in legal actions taken to correct code violations.
	5.	Changes or improvements in materials, methods of construction or design, and changes proposed by interested persons.
	6.	Investigations of fire and structural damage to buildings, and of determination of unsatisfactory building performance.
	7.	Periodic changes to the California Plumbing Code and other State regulations which may affect this code.
	8.	Administrative Bulletins and Code Rulings currently in effect.
	9.	Violations of the code found on inspections or investigations.
102.2.8  Add the following section:
102.2.8  Modifications. When there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the Authority Having Jurisdiction may grant modifications for individual cases. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall first find that a special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical and that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen the standard of this code to safeguard life or limb, health, property, or public welfare. The details of any action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the Department of Building Inspection.
102.5  Replace this section as follows:
102.5  Penalties. Any person, the owner or the owner's authorized agent, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or resists or opposes the execution of any of the provisions of this code, shall be liable for a civil penalty, not to exceed $500 for each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, which penalty shall be assessed and recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the people of the City and County of San Francisco by the City Attorney in any court of competent jurisdiction. Any penalty assessed and recovered in an action brought pursuant to this paragraph shall be paid to the City Treasurer and credited to the Department of Building Inspection's Special Fund.
	Any person, the owner or the owner's authorized agent, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists or opposes the execution of any of the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, unless otherwise provided in this code, and shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day such violation, disobedience, omission, neglect or refusal shall continue. Any person who shall do any work in violation of any of the provisions of this code, and any person having charge of such work who shall permit it to be done, shall be liable for the penalty provided.
	It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the posting of any notice provided for in this code or to tear down or mutilate any such notice posted by the Department of Building Inspection.
SECTION 103.0 – PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
103.1  Add the following second paragraph of this section:
	Emergency work for the protection of life or limb, health, property and public welfare shall have a permit obtained within one day of commencing such work, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.
103.1.1  Replace Section 103.1.1(1) and the first paragraph of Section 103.1.1(2) as follows:
103.1.1 Exempt Work. A permit shall not be required for the following:
	(1)	Repair of leaks not requiring cutting into or removing piping.
	(2)	Unstopping of traps, sewers, vents or waste pipes not requiring cutting into or removal of traps or piping.
	(3)	Replacement, repair or maintenance of faucets, valves, hose bibbs or roof drain not requiring cutting into or removal of piping.
	(4)	Replacement of toilets except in structures with alternate water piping.
	(5)	Replacement of furnace filters.
	(6)	Removal of drainage, water or gas piping from a building when the water supply, gas and drainage lines have been disconnected in an approved manner under a permit.
	(7)	Work involved in setting up for display of plumbing fixtures or appliances, when not connected to any supply or drainage lines, in a sales establishment.
	(8)	Replacement of water conservation devices not requiring cutting into or removal of piping.
	(9)	Work performed in buildings or structures owned and occupied by the State and Federal governments.
103.1.3  Add the following section:
103.1.3  Homeowner's Permit. A permit for plumbing work in, on or about a single-family dwelling may be issued by the Authority Having Jurisdiction, provided said work is done by the owner or a family member who has demonstrated, to the satisfaction of the administrative authority, his or her qualifications to satisfactorily perform the plumbing work in the dwelling which is, or is intended to be, occupied by the owner. If the plumbing work performed under the homeowner's permit does not comply with the requirements of this code and if the corrections are not made as required by the Department of Building Inspection, then the work shall be corrected by a State-licensed plumbing contractor under a separate permit.
	Such State-licensed plumbing contractor shall be required to pay only the permit issuance fee as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-C – Plumbing/Mechanical Permit Issuance and Inspection Fees – of the Building Code. If additional inspection is required, the appropriate fees as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-C – Plumbing/Mechanical Permit Issuance and Inspection Fees and Table 1A-G – Inspection, Surveys and Reports – of the Building Code shall apply.
103.1.4  Add the following section:
103.1.4  Amending Applications. After a permit has been issued and an inspection of the work has been made, the scope of the permit may be altered by filing an amended permit application and paying fees for any additional work as set forth in Table 1A-C – Plumbing/Mechanical Permit Issuance and Inspection Fees and Table 1A-G – Inspections, Survey, and Reports of Section 110A of the Building Code.
103.2  Replace this section as follows:
103.2  Application. Permit applicants shall file with the Department of Building Inspection an application on a form furnished for that purpose.
	A permit for inspection of the proposed plumbing work set forth in the application will be issued to State-licensed contractors or to homeowners subject to the requirements of Section 103.1.3 A separate permit shall be obtained for each separate building, structure or property.
103.3  Replace this section as follows:
103.3  Permit Issuance. An issued permit entitles the permittee to proceed with the work described therein. The issuance of a permit does not constitute approval of any work done under that permit. Permits shall not be transferable.
103.3.3 Replace this section as follows:
103.3.3  Permit Expiration. Plumbing permits expire per Section 106A.4.4 of the San Francisco Building Code. Permit fees may be partially refunded if a written cancellation request is made to the Building Official prior to commencement of the permitted work and within 90 days of the date of permit issuance. See Section 110A, Table 1A-R – Refunds – of the Building Code for refunds.
103.3.3.1  Add the following section:
103.3.3.1  Commencement of Work on Permit Expired Due to Work Not Started. A new permit shall be obtained to undertake the work described on an expired permit on which no work was performed. If not more than one year has elapsed since the expiration of the original permit, the applicant is eligible for reduced fees. See Section 110A, Table 1A- B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees – of the Building Code for applicable fees.
	If a refund has been granted per Section 103.3.3, the applicant shall not be eligible for the reduced fees as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-B – Other Building Permit and Plan Review Fees – of the Building Code.
103.3.3.2  Add the following section:
103.3.3.2  Recommencement of Work on Permit Expired Due to Work Not Completed. The applicant shall obtain a new permit for the work not completed. The permit fee shall be based on work remaining to be done. Fees shall be as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-C – Plumbing/Mechanical Permit Issuance and Inspection Fees – of the Building Code.
103.4  Replace this section as follows:
103.4  Permit Fees. Before any permit is issued, the applicant shall pay to the Central Permit Bureau the fees as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-C – Plumbing/Mechanical Permit Issuance and Inspection Fees – of the Building Code. The replacement of a plumbing fixture or a gas appliance without a change in drainage, piping or venting shall not require the payment of permit issuance fee. A separate permit issuance fee shall be paid for each class of work, i.e., sewers and drainage, gas and water.
	Final inspection will not be made unless all outstanding fees related to the permit work have been paid.
103.4.1  Replace the following section:
103.4.1  Inspections Not Covered by Permit Fees.
103.4.1.1  Off Hours of Inspection. Off-hour inspection may be performed outside normal inspection hours by prior arrangement and prepayment of fees as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – of the Building Code.
103.4.1.2  Reinspections. A reinspection fee shall be assessed for each inspection or reinspection made necessary by any of the following conditions:
	(1)	When the portion of the work for which the inspection is requested is not complete or code complying.
	(2)	When previously identified deficiencies in the work are not properly corrected.
	(3)	When the approved construction documents are not available to the inspector.
	(4)	When access is not provided on the date and time of the inspection appointment.
	(5)	When work deviates from the approved construction documents.
	The first reinspection for failure to comply with code requirements shall not be assessed a reinspection fee. All subsequent reinspections for the same or subsequent errors or omissions shall be charged a reinspection fee.
	Subsequent to inspector determination of reinspection fee requirements, no required or requested inspections shall be made nor shall the job be given a certificate of final completion and occupancy or final approval until the required reinspection fees are paid. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – of the Building Code for applicable fees.
103.4.1.3  Survey. A plumbing survey may be requested when a plumbing inspector's assistance is desired to establish code compliance of existing or proposed plumbing system requirements. See Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – of the Building Code for applicable fees.
103.4.3.1  Revise this section as follows:
103.4.3.1  Fees. An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. See Section 110A, Table 1A-C – Plumbing/Mechanical Permit Issuance and Inspection Fees, and Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – of the Building Code for applicable fees. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt a person from compliance with other provisions of this code, nor from a penalty prescribed by law.
	The Director may reduce the investigation fee to two times the amount of the permit fee as called for in Section 110A, Table 1A-C – Plumbing/Mechanical Permit Issuance and Inspection Fees – of the Building Code for work that was constructed prior to the current building ownership or for work without permit which was done prior to January 1, 1967, if the owner files with the Director a notarized affidavit together with documents substantiating such dates of work.
	Appeals of investigation fees may be filed with the Board of Appeals in the manner provided in Part III of the San Francisco Municipal Code. Such filing shall be subject to the fees and rules of the Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals, in reviewing the appeal, may reduce the appealed amount to not less than two times the permit fee as set forth in Section 110A, Table 1A-C – Plumbing/Mechanical Permit Issuance and Inspection Fees – of the Building Code.
103.4.4  Replace this section as follows:
103.4.4  Fee Refunds. For fee refunds, see Section 107A.6 of the Building Code.
103.5.9  Revise the fourth paragraph as follows:
	To obtain reinspection, the applicant shall file an application therefore in writing upon a form furnished for that purpose and pay the reinspection fee in accordance with Section 110A, Table 1A-G – Inspections, Surveys and Reports – of the Building Code.
SECTION 104.0 – ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
104.0  Add the following section:
104.0  Abatement of Public Nuisance. In order to abate a nuisance as defined in Section 216.0 of this code, the inspection and abatement procedures as set forth in Section 102A of the Building Code shall apply.
105.0  Add the following section:
SECTION 105.0 – BOARD OF EXAMINERS
	Application may be made to the Board of Examiners for approval of alternate materials, methods and types of construction and for variances from the provisions of this code. See Building Code, Section 105A.1.
106.0  Add the following section:
SECTION 106.0 – REPAIRS TO DEFECTIVE BUILDING SEWERS
106.1  General. Any defective building sewer found to be a nuisance or hazardous to the public shall be repaired at the owner's expense by a licensed plumbing contractor in accordance with this code. In the event the owner fails to repair the defective building sewer after written notice has been sent the owner by the Authority Having Jurisdiction, the Authority Having Jurisdiction shall abate the condition in accordance with Section 102A of the Building Code.
106.2  Cost of Repairs by City and County of San Francisco. Whenever the Authority Having Jurisdiction, pursuant to the authority conferred by this code and the Building Code, shall cause a building sewer to be repaired or replaced, the cost thereof shall be paid from the "Plumbing Building Sewer Revolving Fund" and assessed against the property served by said building sewer.
106.3  Plumbing Building Sewer Revolving Fund. A special revolving fund, to be known as the "Plumbing Building Sewer Revolving Fund," is hereby created for the purpose of defraying the costs and expenses which may be incurred by the Department of Building Inspection in carrying out the authority conferred by this code to repair or replace defective building sewers.
	The Board of Supervisors shall transfer one half of the funds appropriated to the "Side Sewer Repair" fund of the Department of Building Inspection or shall appropriate, establish or increase the special revolving fund with such funds as it may deem necessary in order to expedite performance of the work of repairing or replacing defective building sewers. The special revolving fund shall be replenished with all funds collected under the proceeding hereinafter provided for, either upon voluntary payments or as a result of the sale of the property after delinquency, or otherwise. Balances remaining in the Plumbing Building Sewer Revolving Fund at the close of any fiscal year shall be carried forward in such fund.
106.4  Assessment for Costs. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall take action to have the costs of all work done or caused to be done pursuant to this section assessed against the parcel or parcels of land upon which said building is served by the building sewer per Section 102A of the Building Code. Such costs shall include, in addition to all costs related to repairing or replacing the building sewer or demolishing and clearing the site, the City and County of San Francisco's costs in administering the required work. See Section 110A, Table 1A-K – Penalties, Hearings, Code Enforcement Assessments – of the Building Code for the applicable fee.
Chapter 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION 201.0 – GENERAL
201.1  Add the following to the end of the first sentence:
Where words, terms and phrases are not defined, they shall have their ordinary accepted meaning within the context with which they are used.
SECTION 204.0 – B
204.0  Add the following definition:
Boiler. A closed vessel used for heating water or liquid, or for generating steam or vapor by direct application of heat from combustible fuels or electricity.
SECTION 208.0 – F
208.0  Add the following definition:
Foot Vent - See "Relief Vent," Section 220.0.
SECTION 216.0 – N
216.0  Add the following items after Item (3) under definition of "Nuisance":
	(4)	Open, unsecured, leaking, plugged or otherwise defective sewer, gas or water lines.
	(5)	Inadequate plumbing system maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, or damage.
	(6)	Plumbing or plumbing fixtures, gas appliances or piping installed in violation of this code or without permit.
	(7)	Where a change in occupancy classification is made without complying with the applicable provisions of this code and the Building Code.
SECTION 218.0 – P
218.0  Revise this definition as follows:
Plumbing System. Includes all potable water, building supply, and distribution pipes; all plumbing fixtures and traps; all drainage and vent pipes; and all building drains and building sewers, including their respective joints and connections, devices, receptors, and appurtenances within the property lines of the premises and shall include potable water piping, potable water treating or using equipment, medical gas and medical vacuum systems, liquid and fuel gas piping, and water heaters and vents for same, and fire sprinkler systems. Plumbing systems shall include all plumbing appliances, plumbing appurtenances and plumbing fixtures.
SECTION 221.0 – S
221.0  Add the following definition:
Story. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above. For the purposes of this code, balcony, loft and mezzanine levels that contain plumbing outlets are also to be considered as stories.
Chapter 3
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION 313.0 – HANGERS AND SUPPORTS
313.8  Add the following section:
313.8  Materials.
313.8.1  Plumber's tape hanger iron may be used to secure pipe not greater than 2 inches (50.8 mm) in diameter.
313.8.2  Hanger iron shall be galvanized and not thinner than 22 gauge, 1/32-inch thick (0.8 mm) and 3/4-inch (19.05 mm) wide, securely nailed or screwed to the structure. When the strap-iron is formed around the pipe, it shall be secured with a 1/4-inch (6.35 mm) stove bolt.
Chapter 4
PLUMBING FIXTURES AND FIXTURE FITTINGS
SECTION 403.0 – WATER-CONSERVING FIXTURES AND FITTINGS
SECTION 403.3 – URINALS
403.3.1  Revise this section as follows:
403.3.1  Nonwater Urinals. Nonwater urinals shall be listed and comply with the applicable standards referenced in Table 1401.1. Nonwater urinals shall have a barrier liquid sealant to maintain a trap seal. Nonwater urinals shall permit the uninhibited flow of waste through the urinal to the sanitary drainage system. Nonwater urinals shall permit the uninhibited flow of waste through the urinal to the sanitary drainage system. Nonwater urinals shall be cleaned and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions after installation. Where nonwater urinals are installed, not less than one water supplied fixture rated at not less than 1 water supply fixture unit (WSFU) shall be installed upstream on the same drain line to facilitate drain line flow and rinsing. Where nonwater urinals are installed they shall have a water distribution line rough-in to the urinal location to allow for the installation of an approved backflow prevention device in the event of a retrofit.
SECTION 406.0 – PROHIBITED FIXTURES
406.0  Add the following section:
406.4  Watercloset-Sink Combinations. Watercloset-Sink combinations are not allowed in structures with treated alternate water piping.
SECTION 422.0 – MINIMUM NUMBER OF REQUIRED FIXTURES
422.1  Replace this section as follows:
422.1  Fixture Count. Plumbing fixtures shall be provided in accordance with Section 2902 of the Building Code.
Table 422.1  Add a note under the title as follows:
TABLE 422.1
Minimum Plumbing Facilities
NOTE : This Table is not applicable in San Francisco. Refer to Table 2902.1 of the Building Code.

EXCERPT FROM THE 2013 SAN FRANCISCO BUILDING CODE
Table 2902.1 of the San Francisco Building Code has been inserted below for your convenience.

TABLE 2902.1 – MINIMUM PLUMBING FIXTURES 1, 2, 3
TYPE OF BUILDING OR OCCUPANCY4WATER CLOSETS5
(Fixtures per person)LAVATORIES5
(Fixtures per person)BATHTUB OR SHOWER
(Fixtures per person)MaleFemaleMaleFemaleFor the occupancies listed below, use 30 square feet (2.78 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group AConference rooms, dining rooms, drinking establishments, exhibit rooms, gymnasiums, lounges, stages and similar uses including restaurants classified as Group B occupancies1: 1-251: 1-25one for each water closet up to four; then one for each two additional water closets2: 26-752: 26-753: 76-1253: 76-1254: 126- 2004: 126- 2005: 201- 3005: 201- 3006: 301- 4006: 301- 400Over 400, add one fixture for each additional 200 males or 150 females.For the assembly occupancies listed below, use the number of fixed seating or, where no fixed seating is provided, use 15square feet (1.39 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Assembly places–

Auditoriums, convention halls, dance floors, lodge rooms, stadiums and casinos1: 1-503: 1-501: 1-2001: 1-2002: 51-1004: 51-1002: 201- 4002: 201- 4003: 101- 1506: 101- 2003: 401- 7503: 401- 7504: 151- 3008: 201- 400Over 750, add one fixture for each additional 500 personsOver 300 males, add one fixture for each additional 200, and over 400 females add one for each 125.For the assembly occupancies listed below, use the number of fixed seating or, where no fixed seating is provided, use 30 square feet (2.29 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Worship placesPrincipal assembly areaone per 150one per 75one per two water closetsWorship placesEducational and activity unitone per 125one per 75one per two water closetsFor the occupancies listed below, use 200 square feet (18.58 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group BOffices or public buildings1: 1-151: 1-15one per two water closets2: 16-352: 16-353: 36-553: 36-55Over 55, add one for each 50 persons.For the occupancies listed below, use 50 square feet (4.65 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group E1: 1-151: 1-15one per 40one per 40Schools – for staff use2: 16-352: 16-35All schools3: 36-553: 36-55Over 55, add one fixture for each additional 40 persons.Schools – for student use1: 1-201: 1-201: 1-251: 1-25Day care2: 21-502: 21-502: 26-502: 26-50Over 50, add one fixture for each additional 50 persons.Over 50, add one fixture for each additional 50 persons.Elementary one per 30one per 25one per 35one per 35Secondaryone per 40one per 30one per 40one per 40Education Facilities other than Group E Others (colleges, universities, adult centers, etc.)one per 40one per 30one per 40one per 40For the occupancies listed below, use 2,000 square feet (185.8 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group F1: 1-101: 1-10one for each two water closetsone shower for each 15 persons exposed to excessive heat or to skin contamination with irritating materialsWorkshop, foundries and similar establishments, and Group H Occupancies2: 11-252: 11-253: 26-503: 26-504: 51-754: 51-755: 76-1005: 76-100Over 100, add one fixture for each additional 300 persons.For the occupancies listed below, use the designated application and 200 square feet (18.58 m2) per occupant of the general use area for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group IHospital waiting roomsone per room 
(usable by either sex)one per roomHospital general use areas1: 1-151: 1-15one per each two water closets2: 16-353: 16-353: 36-554: 36-55Over 55, add one fixture for each additional 40 persons.Hospital patient roomone per roomone per roomone per roomHospital ward roomone per eight patientsone per 10 patientsone per 20 patientsJails and reformatories	Cellone per cellone per cell	Exercise roomone per exercise roomone per exercise roomOther institutions (on each occupied floor)one per 25one per 25one per 10one per 10one per eightFor the occupancies listed below, use 200 square feet (18.58 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.Group MRetail or wholesale stores1: 1-501: 1-50one for each two water closets2: 51-1002: 51-2003: 101- 4003: 101- 2004: 201- 3005: 301- 400Over 400, add one fixture for each additional 500 males and one for each 150 females.For Group R Occupancies, dwelling units and hotel guest rooms, use the chart. For congregate residences, use 200 square feet (18.58 m2) for Group R, Division I Occupancies and 300 square feet (27.87 m2) for Group R, Division 3 Occupancies for the minimum plumbing fixtures.Group RDwelling unitsone per dwelling unitone per dwelling unitone per dwelling unitHotel guest roomsone per guest roomone per guest roomone per guest roomCongregate residencesone per 10one per 8one per 12one per 12one per eightAdd one fixture for each additional 25 males and one for each additional 20 females.Over 12, add one fixture for each additional 20 males and one for each additional 15 females.For females, add one bathtub per 30. Over 150, add one per 20.Group S
Warehouses1: 1-101: 1-10one per 40 occupants of each sexone shower for each 15 persons exposed to excessive heat or to skin contamination with poisonous, infectious or irritating materials2: 11-252: 11-253: 26-503: 26-504: 51-754: 51-755: 76-1005: 76-100Over 100, add one for each 300 males and females.NOTE: Occupant loads over 30 shall have one drinking fountain for each 150 occupants.
1	The figures shown are based on one fixture being the minimum required for the number of persons indicated or any fraction thereof.
2	Drinking fountains shall not be installed in toilet rooms.
3	When the design occupant load is less than 10 persons, a facility usable by either sex may be approved by the building official.
4	Any category not mentioned specifically or about which there are any questions shall be classified by the building official and included in the category which it most nearly resembles, based on the expected use of the plumbing facilities.
5	Where urinals are provided, one water closet less than the number specified may be provided for each urinal installed, except the number of water closets in such cases shall not be reduced to less than one half of the minimum specified.
6	Twenty-four inches (610 mm) of wash sink or 18 inches (457 mm) of a circular basin, when provided with water outlets for such space, shall be considered equivalent to one lavatory.
Chapter 5
WATER HEATERS
SECTION 504.0 – WATER HEATER REQUIREMENTS
504.1  Add the first paragraph to the section:
504.1  Location. Water Heaters mounted on the exterior of a building and located 7' or more above grade shall require an approved means for service or replacement.
Chapter 6
WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION
SECTION 603.0 – CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
603.1  Add a new third paragraph to this section as follows:
	Structures with alternate water piping shall have an Reduced-Pressure Principle Backflow Prevention Assembly installed on the domestic supply as close as practical to the meter. 
603.5.6.4  Add the following section:
603.5.6.4  All such installations shall be approved in writing by the San Francisco Water Department prior to installation.
SECTION 604.0 – MATERIALS
604.1  Add the following sentence to the end of the second paragraph:
Connections between copper water piping and ferrous materials shall be made with dielectric or insulated fittings or brass nipples of 6 inches (152.4 mm) minimum length.
SECTION 606.0 – VALVES
606.8  Add the following section:
606.8  All buildings four stories or more in height or water supply greater than 40 feet above the water meter shall have an approved backflow assembly installed as near as possible to the water meter and before the first fitting or branch line. The backflow assembly installed shall be in accordance to the degree of hazard within the building, but in no case less than an approved double check assembly. See Table 603.2.
SECTION 609.0 – INSTALLATION, TESTING, UNIONS AND LOCATION
609.10.2  Add the following section:
609.10.2  Air Chambers. Air chambers shall be installed on all hot and cold water outlets supplying quick-acting valves to provide water hammer relief. The size of each air chamber shall be 24 times the diameter of the fixture supply.
609.10.3  Add the following section:
609.10.3  Quick-Acting Valves. The following valves shall be considered quick-acting: flushometers, single-handle faucets, single- handle tub and tub/shower combination control valves, single-handle shower control valves, rapid response electric solenoid valves (such as used on ice-makers, clothes washers, etc.) and any other appliance or fixture that dispenses water in a quick open and close method in its operation.
Chapter 7
SANITARY DRAINAGE
SECTION 701.0 – MATERIALS
701.1(2)(A) Revise this section as follows:
		(A)	ABS and PVC installations are limited to not more than two stories of Commercial or private residential accommodations.
701.1(3)  Revise this section as follows:
	(3)	No vitrified clay pipe or fittings shall be used above-ground or where pressurized by a pump or ejector or underground within the foundation line of the building. They shall be kept not less than 12 inches (305 mm) belowground.
701.1(7)  Add the following section:
	(7)	Copper tubing shall not be used for urinal drainage or applications which are detrimental to the integrity of copper tubing.
SECTION 706.0 – CHANGES IN DIRECTION OF DRAINAGE FLOW
706.4  Revise this section as follows:
706.4  Vertical drainage lines connecting with horizontal drainage lines shall enter through 45 degree (0.79 rad) wye branches, combination wye and one-eighth bend branches, or other approved fittings of equivalent sweep. Branches or offsets of 60 degrees (1.05 rad) shall be permitted to be used where installed in a true vertical position. In buildings more than three stories in height, any fixture within 10 feet (304 mm) of the connection of the vertical to horizontal change shall enter the horizontal drainage line at least 10 feet (304 mm) downstream from the change or may connect into the next vertical downstream line.
SECTION 710.0 – DRAINAGE OF FIXTURES LOCATED BELOW THE NEXT UPSTREAM MANHOLE OR BELOW THE MAIN SEWER LEVEL
710.1.1  Add the following section:
710.1.1  Drainage of Fixtures Located Below the Fresh Air Inlet. Where a fixture is installed with the flood rim level equal to or lower than the elevation of the fresh air inlet serving the house trap, the piping serving the fixture shall be protected by installing an approved type of backwater valve. Where a fixture is installed with the flood rim level higher than the elevation of the fresh air inlet serving the house trap, the fixture shall not discharge through such backwater valve.
Chapter 8
INDIRECT WASTES
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Chapter 9
VENTS
SECTION 901.0 – GENERAL
901.1  Add second paragraph to this section as follows:
	No mechanical device shall be installed in any venting system. Such venting system shall remain unobstructed to an approved termination.
SECTION 907.0 – VENT STACKS AND RELIEF VENTS
907.1  Revise this section as follows:
907.1  Drainage Stack. Each drainage stack that extends six (6) or more stories above the building drain or other horizontal drain, shall be served by a parallel vent stack, which shall extend undiminished in size from its upper terminal and connect to the drainage stack at or immediately below the lowest fixture drain. Each such vent stack shall also be connected to the drainage stack at each fifth floor, counting down from the uppermost fixture drain, by means of a yoke vent, the size of which shall be not less in diameter than either the drainage or the vent stack, whichever is smaller.
907.3  Add the following section:
907.3  Vent Stacks and Relief Vents. Every building in which plumbing is installed shall have at least one main stack which shall run undiminished in size and as directly as possible from each building drain serving said building through to the open air above the roof.
	For the purposes of this section, the main stack shall be defined as the largest size stack that is connected to a building drain or sewer.
	A vent stack shall be installed with a soil or waste stack whenever relief vents or other branch vents are required in two or more branch intervals. A vent stack shall be installed in accordance with Section 706.1.
	The size of the soil stack shall be determined by the total fixture units on that stack as per Table 703.2.
Chapter 10
TRAPS AND INTERCEPTORS
SECTION 1008.0 – BUILDING TRAPS
1008.1  Revise this section as follows:
1008.1  General. Building traps shall not be installed except where required by the Authority Having Jurisdiction. Each building trap where installed shall be provided with a cleanout and with a relieving vent or fresh-air intake on the inlet side of the trap. Such trap shall have a fresh air inlet of not less than 4 inch (101.6 mm) diameter pipe. The inlet shall be covered by an approved perforated plate not less than 16 square inches (102323 mm2).* Perforations shall be not more than 3/8 inch (9.6 mm) diameter and provide an aggregate open area of not less than one-half the cross-sectional area of the sewer trap. The air inlet shall be connected to the building side of the trap and shall lead to the open air, terminating at a point not less than 10 feet (304 mm) from any window or door.
* Editor's Note: 
	So in adopting ordinance. Sixteen square inches equals approximately 10,323 mm2.
SECTION 1016.0 – SAND INTERCEPTORS
1016.3  Add the following section:
1016.3.1  When drains are provided for planter boxes, such drains shall enter into the sanitary or storm drainage plumbing system by discharging into an approved sump, receiving tank or sand settling tank. No trap shall be installed between the planter box and any approved receptor. Sizes of drains shall conform to Table 703.2.
	Catch basins or sumps to drain surface water or collect subsoil drainage shall meet the following requirements:
	(1)	The catch basin or sump shall be poured in place, and all sides and bottom shall be watertight.
	(2)	A removable metal grill approved for applied design loads shall be placed on top.
	(3)	Each catch basin shall be served with its own trap and cleanout, and shall connect to the storm or sanitary system independently.
	(4)	If inlet is located below the building sewer or drain, a sump pump minimum of 1-1/2" (38.1 mm) outlet may be used. The bottom of sump shall maintain a 1' - 0" (25.4 mm)* distance from the inlet, creating a 1' - 0" (25.4 mm)* sand trap.
* Editor's Note:
	So in adopting ordinance.
	(5)	If the depth of the sump is over 5' - 0" (1.52 m) a larger catch basin shall be required with a permanent ladder securely bolted to the interior to provide access for maintenance. A minimum clear space of 30" × 30" (762 mm × 762 mm) shall be provided.
	(6)	A listed and approved plastic catch basin may be installed in areas of residential buildings that are not subjected to any vehicular traffic and shall be installed on a concrete base to prevent settling, provided all other code requirements of this section and the listing and installation requirements of such catch basin are met.
Chapter 11
STORM DRAINAGE
SECTION 1101.0 – GENERAL
1101.1.1  Add the following section:
1101.1.1  Leaders, Connection to Drain. All storm water or casual water from roof areas, balconies, lightwells, courtyards or similar areas which total more than 200 square feet (18.4 square meters) aggregate shall drain or be conveyed directly to the building drain, or building sewer, or to an approved alternate location based on approved geotechnical and engineering designs. Such drainage shall not be directed to flow onto adjacent property or over public way, including sidewalks. The opening of the leader shall meet the same requirements as Section 1106.0 of the California Plumbing Code.
1101.1.2  Add the following section:
1101.1.2  Temporary Provisions. When the stormwater sewer is not yet installed, the building stormwater drainage system may discharge into the sewer on the street side of the main trap as near to the curbline as possible.
1101.1.3  Add the following section:
1101.1.3  Temporary Provisions Drain Trap. When, under the provisions of Section 1101.1.2 the building stormwater drainage system discharges to the sewer, a trap shall be placed in that drain at a point near where it branches into the sewer. The trap shall be supplied with clean water by an approved means such as a hose bibb or trap primer.
Chapter 12
FUEL GAS PIPING
SECTION 1208.0 – GAS PIPING SYSTEM DESIGN, MATERIALS, AND COMPONENTS
1208.5.1.1  Add a second paragraph as follows:
	Gas piping in exterior locations, except as otherwise regulated by this code, shall be of galvanized iron or steel, with galvanized fittings.
Chapter 13
HEALTH CARE FACILITIES AND MEDICAL GAS AND VACUUM SYSTEMS
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Chapter 14
REFERENCED STANDARDS
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Chapter 15
FIRESTOP PROTECTION
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Chapter 16
ALTERNATE WATER SOURCES FOR NONPOTABLE APPLICATIONS
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Chapter 17
NONPOTABLE RAINWATER CATCHMENT SYSTEMS
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Appendix A
RECOMMENDED RULES FOR SIZING THE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Appendix B
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON COMBINATION WASTE AND VENT SYSTEMS
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Appendix D
SIZING STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Appendix G
SIZING OF VENTING SYSTEMS SERVING APPLIANCES EQUIPPED WITH DRAFT HOODS, CATEGORY 1 APPLIANCES, AND APPLIANCES LISTED FOR USE WITH TYPE B VENTS
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Appendix H
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Appendix I
INSTALLATION STANDARDS
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
Appendix J
COMBINATION OF INDOOR AND OUTDOOR COMBUSTION AND VENTILATION OPENING DESIGN
	No San Francisco Plumbing Code Amendments.
